




## Surnames beginning with R {-}

**Name:** Jack Rainey

**Supervisor:** Kerry Kilborn

**Title:** Reality Television Viewership and Relational Aggression: An Investigation into Underlying Mechanisms

**Abstract:** A large body of research has consistently established a relationship between watching reality television and engaging in acts of relational aggression. This relationship has been attributed almost exclusively to media priming. The present study aims to assess the role of an alternative mechanism, namely that of self-esteem depletion, in explaining the link between reality television viewership and relational aggression. Participants were separated into 3 groups, each watching different video clips: reality television containing relational aggression, reality television without relational aggression and a control. Each group then completed the Young Adult Social Behaviour Scale, a measure of relational aggression, and the State Self-Esteem Scale. Statistical analyses will be conducted to assess if there is a relationship between reality television viewership and relational aggression, and if this relationship is mediated by media priming or reality television’s negative impact on self-esteem.  

**Tags:** Social Psychology   

---



**Name:** Aischa Reinken

**Supervisor:** Maria Gardani

**Title:** Protective Factors of Mental Health in Sexual Minority Individuals

**Abstract:** This study investigated whether self-respect and assertiveness act as protective factors for mental health in sexual minority individuals, using a relational cultural framework. A mixed-methods online survey was employed to ensure that quantitative findings were grounded in participants’ experiences. 152 undergraduate students were recruited online, indicated their sexual orientation, and filled out questionnaires on mental health, suicidal ideation, assertiveness, self-respect and relationship quality. Furthermore, they were asked to answer open-ended questions on self-respect, upbringing, relationships, and accessibility to mental health support. Spearman correlational analyses and multiple regression analyses were conducted to answer the research question. Thematic analysis was used to explore individuals’ experiences.

**Tags:** Mental Health and Wellbeing   

---




**Name:** Annie Roland

**Supervisor:** Heather Cleland Woods

**Title:** The role of social media literacy in the relationship between night-time social media use and sleep quality in young people

**Abstract:** This study examines young people’s night-time social media use and sleep quality in light of previous findings that have linked higher night-time social media use to poorer sleep quality. The purpose of this exploratory study is to investigate the potential role of social media literacy (SML), defined as critical thinking and realism skepticism towards social media content, as a protective factor against poor sleep quality in young people. We will also explore associations between SML, night-time social media use, social comparison, rumination, and sleep quality. Participants aged 16-25 were asked to complete an online questionnaire containing six scales, including the peer and commercial SML scales, PAUM, INCOM, PTQ, and SCI. Associations between variables will be presented with a correlation matrix, while the contributions of social media literacy, night-time social media use, social comparison, and rumination on sleep quality will be analysed using a multiple linear regression.

**Tags:** Mental Health and Wellbeing   

---




**Name:** Lila Ceri Rose

**Supervisor:** Emily Nordmann

**Title:** How much do women f**cking swear? Investigating the impact of sexuality and Gender Role Beliefs on perceptions and frequency of swearing in women.

**Abstract:** This study examined whether sexuality and/or gender role beliefs predicted swearing frequency in women as well as attitudes towards women swearing. Whilst gender differences in language use and more specifically swearing have been previously researched, the present study is the first to investigate the potential reasons for the seen gender variance in swearing.  By taking into account a women’s sexuality and thus their gender role beliefs as possible predictors of their swear word use and attitudes towards it, it has potential ramifications on how researchers approach gender variance. Participants completed the Swearing Frequency scale as well as the Social Roles Scale (SRQ) and a novel scale was developed to measure attitudes towards swearing.  The results were then analysed with a multiple regression analysis followed by an ANOVA.

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language)   

---




**Name:** Kim Rosenberger

**Supervisor:** Ian Bushnell

**Title:** The Lived Experience of the Relationship Between Parenting and Leadership

**Abstract:** The large amount of literature on parenting suggests that it can be measured and generalised. However, qualitative papers claim that especially motherhood is a highly individual experience, influenced by a variety of factors. Furthermore, while the topic combines aspects of identity theory, attachment, and even transformational leadership, there is hardly any research linking the domains. Thus, the present study has chosen to deeper explore the lived experience of the relationship between parenting and leadership, basing its findings on four interviews with mothers in leadership positions in academia. It uses an interpretative phenomenological analysis and will base the findings’ evaluation mainly on identity theory, as it will also be looking at the influences of both identities on each other. Congruent with its methodology, conclusions will strongly rely on the participants’ experiences and sense-making thereof.

**Tags:** Social Psychology,  Applied Psychology,  Other 

---

