




## Surnames beginning with T {-}

**Name:** James Tawse

**Supervisor:** Kevin Wilson-Smith

**Title:** A thematic analysis of attitudes towards and experiences of occupational stress, mental illness and disclosure amongst medical students and health care professionals.

**Abstract:** Background: Health care professionals and medical students are placed under substantial levels of occupational stress. The negative impact of elevated work-stress has serious ramifications for one’s mental and physical wellbeing, which may help to explain higher incidences of mental ill health amongst these populations. Personality traits common to the health sector, such as perfectionism, self-criticism and secrecy act as barriers to treatment and may worsen outcomes. Fear of stigmatisation has also been identified as contributing towards health care professionals’ low levels of help-seeking behaviour. Aims: This study aims to explore medical students’ and health care professionals’ experiences of and attitudes towards occupational stress, mental illness and disclosure. In particular, the present research is interested in exploring factors that may prevent one from seeking help for mental ill health and exploring any stigmas that still exist surrounding mental illness. Methods: This qualitative study involved semi-structured interviews with medical students and health care professionals working in a variety of areas. Interviews were recorded for later transcription, which were then analysed to identify common themes in responses. 

**Tags:** Mental Health and Wellbeing   

---



**Name:** Amanda Palesa Thobega

**Supervisor:** Lisa DeBruine

**Title:** The relationship between sibling co-residence duration and moral judgements of incest, and the role of sexual orientation.

**Abstract:** Incest can be defined as sexual activity between relatives. Researchers have suggested that there is an innate process that deters humans from engaging in incest, due to the possibility of inbreeding depression. The Westermarck hypothesis suggests that as co-residence with another from a young age has been shown to predict relatedness, children who are co-reared will develop a sexual aversion to one another. The current study aimed to test whether there was a relationship between co-residence duration with a sibling and judgements of moral wrongness of incest. A positive relationship was hypothesised. An adult (18+ years of age) sample was recruited online. Participants were asked to fill out an ID questionnaire and a sibling questionnaire, as well as rank order 19 items from least to most morally wrong. Furthermore, it was of interest whether there was role of sexual orientation in this relationship. Analysis and results are pending.

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language),  Social Psychology,  Developmental Psychology 

---




**Name:** Leonna Jodie Thompson

**Supervisor:** Kerry Kilborn

**Title:** Maslow’s Hierarchy of Needs: Evaluation of Theory and Associations with Anxiety and Self-care Behaviours

**Abstract:** Maslow’s hierarchy of needs is a renowned theory of human motivation that has garnered many citations in the literature, despite a common criticism that there is scant empirical evidence supporting its proposals. As such, this study aimed to contribute to evaluation of the theory by investigating two of its main proposals; 1) the ordering of the needs and 2) that need satisfaction is associated with psychological health. Secondly, the study aimed to expand upon previous research and assessed whether self-care behaviours were associated with need satisfaction and experience of anxiety. Data was collected online using the Five Need Satisfaction Measures, the Beck Anxiety Inventory and the Health-promoting Lifestyle Profile II. Multiple linear regression and correlational analysis will be applied to the data to achieve the main aims of the study.

**Tags:** Mental Health and Wellbeing   

---




**Name:** Max Jordan Amar Mankoo Tibbetts

**Supervisor:** Dale Barr

**Title:** Keeping Up the Tempo - Investigating Neural Entrainment in Rhythmic Speech

**Abstract:** This study investigated whether attentional neural synchronisation can be induced by rhythmic patterns in human speech. While this phenomena (known as entrainment) has been heavily researched in psychoacoustics, there is a deficit of literature on linguistic aspects in this phenomena. Participants were asked to tap along to a priming stimuli in the form of a 4-click track before being immediately exposed to an audio sample, looped twice, that had been determined to carry a rhythmic cadence at a slightly offset tempo to the prime stimulus. The samples were either left as unaltered vocal samples, white noise control samples, or modified to “chimera” samples, which made the vocal excerpts effectively unrecognisable as human speech while still maintaining their timing structure. The participants were asked to try and tap at a rhythm consistent with the initial priming stimulus throughout the audio loop. Evidence of the participants tapping drifting towards the vocal samples in non-control conditions would indicate evidence of entrainment, and could help future research into facilitating learning and comprehension, particularly in the case of virtual assistants such as Siri.

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language)   

---




**Name:** Elinor Tipper

**Supervisor:** Frank Pollick

**Title:** Expertise differences in emotion identification from dance movement in point light displays.

**Abstract:** Expertise in ballet dance has been shown to enhance the ability to discriminate emotions expressed through dance (Christensen et al., 2016). A possible theory for why expertise affects emotion perception is that experts’ extensive visual exposure to specific movement selectively enhances their sensitivity to cues expressed in dynamic display, creating schematic expectancies. Hence, the current study compares expertise group differences between dancers and non-dancer of visual attention for body regions of interest in an emotion-identification task using Point Light Displays of whole-body dance movement. Participants were asked to complete the Dance Sophistication Index, the Toronto Empathy Questionnaire, and the AQ-10. They were then asked to watch Point Light Displays of a dancer and indicate whether they perceived the movement to be neutral, sad, happy, angry, or fearful. A binary logistic regression will be used to look at the relationship between expertise, empathy and eye movements on perception of emotion.

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language)   

---




**Name:** Sofia Tozer Brichette

**Supervisor:** Kevin Wilson-Smith

**Title:** The Influence of Social Media on Mental Wellbeing and Social Identity

**Abstract:** This study examined the influence of social media on mental wellbeing and social identity. Adolescence is the most vulnerable time to develop mental health issues, with 50% of disorders present in adulthood emerging before the age of 18. This is a major concern due to the long lasting consequences they can have, significantly impacting academic achievement, quality of life and personal relationships. However, there are a number of barriers to treatment, such as social isolation and challenging life circumstances, that limit the effectiveness of appropriate interventions. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to explore an alternative form of mental health support by focusing on the potential benefits of social media on adolescent’s wellbeing. Through semi-structured interviews, participants were asked about their experience on social media and mental health services available to them, as well as their help-seeking behaviour online. The implications of this research are discussed with a focus on social networking sites as platform that could promote resilience and mental wellbeing.

**Tags:** Social Psychology,  Mental Health and Wellbeing  

---




**Name:** Jasmin Turner

**Supervisor:** Kerry Kilborn

**Title:** Death anxiety and Mindfulness

**Abstract:** This study aims to examine the difference in the effects of a mindfulness induction on proximal defence responses to mortality salience between participants with previous exposure to mindful techniques compared to those who are novel to mindfulness. Participants were split into two groups, on the basis of having previous experience with yoga, meditation or mindfulness: previous-exposure (n = 25), and those who were novel (n = 25). All participants (N = 50) underwent a mindful-meditation induction and mortality salient induction after experimental manipulation, involving a written exercise pertaining to one’s death. It is expected to find higher levels of trait-mindfulness and fewer proximal responses in the previous-exposure group compared to the novel group. This would show that those with more experience in mindfulness, can better utilize the mindful-meditation induction, thus buffer against death anxiety and respond with less deniability and suppression of death thoughts (proximal defences), showing an open, accepting perspective to death.

**Tags:** Individual Differences,  Other  

---




**Name:** Leigh Tweedlie

**Supervisor:** Stephany Biello

**Title:** The effect of sleep quality on oral presentation skills at University

**Abstract:**  The majority of students in the UK report getting less than 7 hours of sleep every night. This has knock-on effects for their mental and physical health. There is a significant association between sleep quality and intrapersonal adjustment at university- those who have poorer sleep will feel maladjusted compared to their peers. Communication skills also suffer- the literature suggests that those who don’t get regular good quality sleep will seem less desirable, and their peers will be less likely to socialise with them. However, are these poor communication skills reflected in graded assessments as well as social situations? The present research aims to assess if there is a link between poor sleep and communication skills during presentations at university. 40 students completed the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index evaluating their cumulative sleep quality. They were then assessed on their presentation skills during an oral assessment- notably their body language, confidence, and voice projection. 

**Tags:** Social Psychology,  Other  

---




**Name:** Aleksandra Ewa Tymochin

**Supervisor:** Ian Bushnell

**Title:** Exploring the Attitudes, Experiences and Understanding of Healthcare Professionals Regarding Organ Donation in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit.

**Abstract:** Organ donation in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) is a rare occurrence. There have only been two cases of neonatal donors in Scotland, both facilitated at the Royal Hospital for Children in Glasgow. Due to this low number of cases, it is challenging for healthcare professionals to gain expertise in the organ donation process. Therefore, the present study aims to explore the attitudes, experiences and understanding of healthcare professionals who work in NICU at the Royal Hospital for Children. A qualitative approach will be undertaken, and four face-to-face semi-structured interviews will be conducted at the hospital with nurses and doctors from NICU. The data collected will be analysed using a reflective thematic analysis (Braun &amp; Clarke, 2006; Braun &amp; Clarke, 2019) to identify any recurring themes and sub-themes within the data. The implications and future recommendations will be discussed based on the results obtained.

**Tags:** Applied Psychology   

---






