
# Dissertation Abstracts {-}

In this section you will find all the dissertation abstracts submitted, arranged by Surname.




## Surnames beginning with A {-}

**Name:** Rifah Abdullah

**Supervisor:** Ian Bushnell

**Title:** Investigating cross-cultural differences in deception detection

**Abstract:** Deception detection is a primary evolutionary behaviour that is incorporated in many aspects of life (Mokkonen and Lindstedt, 2015). Literature within this area is riddled with inconsistencies (Evans and Michael 2013), especially within cross-cultural research. Increased globalisation has promoted intercultural contact, allowing for better understanding of other cultural norms. Moreover, there are currently several campaigns raising awareness regarding online deception and in the media, therefore it is possible that participants in 2019/2020 may be more accurate in deception detection across different cultures. The current investigation aims to see whether detection rates replicate similar figures acknowledged within the literature using an online forced-choice experiment with audio-video clips. Utilising snowball sampling, an experiment was designed to collect data from primarily UK and Bangladeshi citizens. Simulation data based on parameters set by data collected was generated in order to meet the assumptions to run a logistic regression. Exploratory analysis investigating factors such as university level and gender was also included.

**Tags:** Social Psychology   

---



**Name:** Lucy Claire Aitken

**Supervisor:** Niamh Stack

**Title:** An exploration of teenage girls’ attitudes towards extracurricular sport in state and private schools in Scotland

**Abstract:** Teenage girls are at particular risk of physical inactivity, which is a leading cause of mortality worldwide. Increasing participation is vital for the improvement of physiological and psychological health. The aim of this study is to qualitatively explore the experiences and opinions of teenage girls regarding compulsory and optional extracurricular sport. Two focus groups will be conducted, within one state school and one private school, with 8-10 female high school students. Each focus group will last between 30-45 minutes and will be recorded then transcribed. Data will be kept in a password protected source and will be destroyed upon completion of research. Thematic analysis will be applied to the data following Braun and Clarke’s (2006) six step method. Findings will be discussed and suggestions for future research will be made.

**Tags:** Mental Health and Wellbeing,  Educational Psychology,  Developmental Psychology 

---



**Name:** Ayesha Ali

**Supervisor:** Margaret Martin

**Title:** Mental health help-seeking attitudes in men in male-dominated professions: The role of stigma and masculinity.

**Abstract:** Mental health problems are often unrecognised and untreated among men which may be explained by their help-seeking behaviours. The stigma associated with mental illness and men’s conformity to traditional masculine norms have been shown to negatively influence men’s attitudes towards help-seeking. Hyper-masculine environments such as male-dominated workplaces may be particularly vulnerable to the negative effects associated with traditional masculinity as they are often characterised as possessing a “macho” culture. The current study utilises the Implicit Associations Test to measure stigma towards mental illness, comparing men from male-dominated occupations and neutral workforces. Both groups completed the newly developed Masculinity Contest Cultures scale to assess the endorsement of masculine norms in their work environment followed by the Attitudes Towards Seeking Professional Psychological Help scale. It is expected that men from male-dominated professions will possess more stigmatising attitudes towards mental illness and hold less favourable attitudes towards psychological help-seeking.  

**Tags:** Mental Health and Wellbeing   

---



**Name:** Jo Amaya

**Supervisor:** David Simmons

**Title:** Using Virtual Reality to explore individual differences in local and global visual processing styles

**Abstract:** There are individual differences in visual processing style preferences. In this investigation, we explore how local and global visual processing styles relate to autistic, ADHD and systemising traits. Local processing involves the perception of finer details while global processing captures the overall essence of visual information. Previous research found that individuals with autism (ASD) and ADHD have a local processing bias. In this study, participants completed the Rey-Osterrieth Complex Figure (ROCF) drawing task in Virtual Reality. The ROCF task is used to assess sensory processing styles and visuospatial memory. Virtual Reality is a novel methodological technique that provides high ecological validity without sacrificing experimental control. The participants described their drawing process and answered questions about the task.  Audio recordings were transcribed and analysed using Thematic Analysis. Arising themes are discussed regarding participants’ information processing styles and recollection strategies. Future directions and limitations of this work are also discussed. 

**Tags:** Individual Differences,  Other  

---



**Name:** Flora Anderson

**Supervisor:** Linda Moxey

**Title:** Cognitive Bias Modification and Participant Awareness: Effects on Anxiety and Interpretation bias

**Abstract:** Research claims that due to increased pressure on public mental health services, it would be useful to develop accessible, self-administered forms of therapy. This study aims to examine whether participant awareness changes the effect that cognitive bias modification, a relatively new self-administrated form of cognitive therapy, has on negative interpretation bias and anxiety. Half the participants received a short rationale explaining the training, the other half did not. Participants completed the CALM anxiety questionnaire and a series of interpretation bias scenarios in which they ranked potential outcomes, before taking part in the CBM training exercise. After training they were again assessed on anxiety and interpretation bias. Scores will be empirically analysed to investigate whether there is a significant difference in negative bias and anxiety before and after training, and whether there is a significant difference between the scores of participants who were given a rationale and those who were not.

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language),  Mental Health and Wellbeing  

---
