




## Surnames beginning with L {-}

**Name:** Imogen Leadbetter

**Supervisor:** Heather Cleland Woods

**Title:** An exploration into the relationships between personality, night-time social media use and sleep quality in first-year undergraduate students

**Abstract:** This project aims to explore the relationships between personality, night-time social media use and sleep quality in first-year undergraduate students.  Students are known for experiencing poorer sleep quality – on average – than the general population and high social media use, however few studies have explored this relationship in first-year students.  This population experience high pressure to stay connected socially at all hours of the day, and therefore factors that influence their sleep quality should be explored.  As there are also relationships between personality and sleep quality and personality and social media use, this study aims to explore which personality traits might predict both social media use and sleep quality in first-year students.  Participants completed the Sleep Condition Indicator, the Index of Offline Night-time Distress and the Big Five Personality Inventory, and while results are not available just yet, the research hopes to clarify current knowledge on the subject.

**Tags:** Other   

---



**Name:** Calum Lindsay

**Supervisor:** Emily Nordmann

**Title:** An Investigation of the Effect of Lecture Recording Usage and Note-Taking on Recall

**Abstract:** Note-taking is a key part of studying for many students, but it is not the only method of revision – as more lectures are recorded, their use is also rising. It is important to understand how these aspects of the revision process interact with each other, which (to our knowledge) has not yet been a focus of research. This study exists to investigate whether note-taking styles and strategies for lecture recording usage have any impact on memory. Participants each watched a TEDx talk and took notes using one of two strategies, and were then asked to complete a free recall task followed by a questionnaire. Their results were then analysed and compared by group, in order to see whether or not using the Cornell note-taking method and being allowed to pause lecture recordings to make notes would have an impact on recall.

**Tags:** Educational Psychology   

---



**Name:** Marleen Lomann

**Supervisor:** Phil McAleer

**Title:** Recognition and Discrimination of Bilingual Speakers Across Languages

**Abstract:** Research has shown that identity processing comprises of two features: “telling people apart”, i.e. discrimination, and “telling people together”, i.e. recognition. This research aims to investigate whether people can recognise and discriminate between bilingual speakers speaking in their respective languages. To test this, Estonian/English bilinguals were recorded describing multiple photos in both Estonian and English. Monolingual English native speakers were recruited as participants to ensure no previous knowledge of the Estonian language. Participants were asked to listen to two voice recordings side-by-side and decide whether it was the same speaker or two different people. There were 72 trials of matched - and cross-language clips presented to each participant in counterbalanced order. Results and implications were analysed in regards to previous research in the field. 

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language)   

---



**Name:** Cheyenne Loana Lueckemeier

**Supervisor:** Monika Harvey

**Title:** Investigating differential decay rates of Access and Phenomenal Consciousness

**Abstract:** Human consciousness can be distinguished into phenomenal (PC) and access consciousness (AC). Thereby, AC refers to any perceived information of a scene which we can directly report. PC describes the broader experience, which has caused a debate within literature regarding its assessment accuracy. To elaborate on previous findings, this experimental within-subjects study aims to investigate the differential decay rates in PC and AC. Participants (N=15) were exposed to a colored letter array followed by a retro cue indicating one of the letters. In session one, participants were asked to report the cued letter (AC task) and the color diversity (high/low) of the letter display (PC task). In the second session, the color diversity task was replaced by asking participants to recall the maximum amount of letters they could remember. The researchers manipulated the exposure time between letter stimuli and retro cue, expecting that increased delay will negatively impact the accuracy of recall.

**Tags:** Cognitive Neuroscience   

---



**Name:** Jessica Lynch

**Supervisor:** Stephany Biello

**Title:** Sleepy Students: Piloting a Sleep Intervention for Sleep, Stress, Anxiety & Depression

**Abstract:** As poor sleep and mental health difficulties are ubiquitous amongst higher education students, this study aimed to pilot whether a tailored Cognitive Behavioural Therapy for Insomnia (CBTi) intervention is effective in the reduction of sleep difficulties and mental wellbeing (depression, stress &amp; anxiety) in university students.  Additionally, while no previous studies have investigated the efficacy of individual modules of CBTi on improving student sleep and mental wellbeing, this study assess the efficacy of Cognitive Behavioural components (CB) and Sleep Education (SE) components of CBTi. Nineteen university students attended a group CBTi Sleep Intervention Session and were then randomly assigned to receive digitalised CB or SE CBTi material.  All participants completed sleep diaries and wore accelerometers for the duration of the study (10 weeks), along with completing mental wellbeing questionnaire pertaining to stress, anxiety and depression at baseline, mid-point and upon completion of the study. It is expected that objective and subjective sleep will improve for all students, with a greater increase in those receiving digitalised CB.  Similarly, global improvements in all mental wellbeing measures are predicted, with those receiving CB materials exhibiting greater improvements compared to participants receiving SE.  

**Tags:** Mental Health and Wellbeing   

---

