




## Surnames beginning with B {-}

**Name:** Ana Isabel Bacallado Almandoz

**Supervisor:** Marios Philiastides

**Title:** Influence of Sustainability on Preference- Based Decision Making

**Abstract:** Sustainability has become an important influence on consumer choice. Thus, the purpose of this study is to investigate how information on sustainability affects consumer purchasing behaviours. The participants rated clothing items based on their personal preferences. Then, they completed a preference-based decision-making task, which consisted of choosing amongst two different clothing items. In half of the trials information on the items’ sustainability was also presented. In the end, participants completed a self-reported questionnaire where they revealed their attitudes and behaviours towards sustainability. The results suggest that information on sustainability and consumer preferences are integrated into a single source of evidence during the decision-making process. Therefore, suggesting that sustainability plays a crucial role in consumer purchasing behaviours as a result of the sustainability bias affecting the decision-making process. The findings of this study may have major implications not only on understanding how sustainability information alters consumer choices, but also in prospective marketing strategies.   

**Tags:** Other   

---



**Name:** Jemima Blundell-Roberts

**Supervisor:** Chiara Horlin

**Title:** Autism, Facebook and Social Camouflaging

**Abstract:** Autistic people often face significant challenges when initiating and maintaining social relationships, consequently the use of social camouflaging strategies to minimise the visibility of their autism is common. However, these behaviours have been associated with negative outcomes including poor mental well-being, exhaustion and even suicide. Online communication platforms including Facebook may provide an alternative environment for autistic people to interact with others and build social bonds, in the absence of the difficulties experienced during face-to-face interactions. However, no previous research has considered the existence of camouflaging behaviours in online interactions. Using a mixed-method approach, this exploratory study aims to provide in-depth insight into the perceived benefits for autistic people of using Facebook, specifically for social relationships. Being the first study to investigate the presence of social camouflaging online, this research also aims to extend current understanding of autistic experiences, potentially providing a basis for future research in this area. 

**Tags:** Social Psychology,  Individual Differences  

---



**Name:** Alexandra Bobchinetskaya

**Supervisor:** Heather Cleland Woods

**Title:** Lonely but connected: The relationship between loneliness, pre-sleep cognitive arousal, nighttime-social media use and sleep outcomes in university students.

**Abstract:** University students are at an increased risk of experiencing loneliness, mental health issues, and poor sleep during their time at university, and students may use social media as a coping tool. This study examined how loneliness is related to pre-sleep rumination, social media use and sleep quality among 120 university students (aged 16 to 25). For the first time in the literature, this study examines whether individuals with higher loneliness are more likely to engage in nighttime-specific social media use, and experience ruminative thought patterns in the form of pre-sleep cognitive arousal. Using a cross-sectional study design, participants completed an online questionnaire consisting of 4 measures: the Perceived Social Isolation Scale, the Pre-Sleep Cognitive Arousal Scale, the Overall and Nighttime-Specific Social Media Use Scale, and the Sleep Condition Indicator. Correlational and multiple regression analyses were used as part of the data analysis.

**Tags:** Mental Health and Wellbeing   

---



**Name:** Jacqueline Borgstedt

**Supervisor:** Lisa Debruine

**Title:** An exploration of lateralisation of emotion processing by investigating facial emotion recognition impairments in temporal lobe epilepsy.

**Abstract:** There is an ongoing debate regarding the lateralisation of emotion processing which may be further explored by investigating facial emotion recognition impairments in temporal lobe epilepsy. The primary aim of this study is to establish whether the lateralization of TLE is associated with differences in the ability to accurately identify different facial emotion expressions relative to healthy controls. Specifically, this study will investigate whether a left of right cerebral focus of TLE is associated with deficits in accurately identifying happiness, sadness, fear or anger. The secondary aim of this study is to explore differences between healthy controls, right and left-sided TLE patients in their respective sensitivity to facial emotions. Healthy controls (n=46) and TLE patients (n=57)participated in an animated morphing task (adapted from Schöneberg et al., 2013). During the task participants were exposed to morphed faces which gradually transitioned from a neutral facial expression to one out of four full-blown facial emotions (anger, fear, sadness, happiness). Result: TBC

**Tags:** Other   

---



**Name:** Lily Bowditch

**Supervisor:** Heather Cleland Woods

**Title:** A qualitative exploration of university students’ motivations behind engaging in social media at night.

**Abstract:** Night-time social media use has been associated with poor sleep and psychological well-being among young people. However, there is a lack of qualitative research that has explored motivations for social media use, particularly at night. This study aimed to employ a qualitative research approach to explore the motivations behind university students engaging in social media at night. The present study will give students a voice in the literature, and gain a deeper insight into what actually drives social media engagement at night. Thirteen undergraduate first year students at the University of Glasgow participated in focus group discussions exploring their experiences of using social media. It is expected that two/three overarching themes will emerge following inductive thematic analysis that captures underlying motivations for social media use and perceived impact on sleep. These findings will offer a more holistic understanding into why students engage in social media at night, which will have important implications in terms of contributions to scientific literature and social policy.

**Tags:** Mental Health and Wellbeing   

---



**Name:** Lara Boyle-Ryan

**Supervisor:** Edwin Robertson

**Title:** Investigating the effects of musical training on working memory and skill learning

**Abstract:** In recent years there has been a growing interest in investigating the effects of musical training on cognition. Acquiring musical skills has quantifiable effects on brain functioning and networking, manifestations of brain plasticity. Previous studies investigating musicians have explored effects on learning and memory using tasks involving auditory stimuli. This study investigates whether benefits are seen across different memory domains. 37 Participants, 18 musicians and 19 controls, aged between 18-28 completed a visual 2-back task, measuring working memory, and the serial reaction time task, measuring implicit motor skill learning. Reaction times and accuracy on these tasks will be used for statistical analysis. Musicians should perform better on both of these tasks due to the attention, concentration, memorisation, fine-motor skills and sensorimotor integration required during musical training. This would support existing literature highlighting the cognitive benefits of learning a musical instrument.

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language)   

---



**Name:** Liah Brown

**Supervisor:** Kerry Kilborn

**Title:** How Does Anxiety Affect Episodic Memory? Implications for Alzheimer's Disease.

**Abstract:** Anxiety is one of the most prevalent mental health disorders reported in the United Kingdom, with research showing it impacts our episodic memory. Current research has also indicated anxiety, both early- and late-life, may act as a precursor for Alzheimer's Disease (AD) pathology. Hence, research into how anxiety effects episodic memory may reveal insight as to why AD develops. Using quartile classification from Spielberg’s Trait-State Anxiety Inventory scores, the aim of this study is to empirically investigate how anxiety affects episodic memory in a healthy British university student population. An adapted version of Craik and Tulving's (1975) Depth of Processing paradigm is used, where a series of emotionally neutral British common nouns are presented on screen for a limited duration of time, followed by a question regarding the structure or animacy of the word, to assess the accuracy of the level of processing, shallow or deep, used.

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language),  Individual Differences,  Mental Health and Wellbeing 

---



**Name:** Kaela Brown

**Supervisor:** Benedict Jones

**Title:** “Heavier is Happier”; Do facial cues of body weight influence perceptions of happy and sad facial expressions? Evidence from a UK sample


**Abstract:** Interpreting facial expressions of emotion accurately plays an important role in everyday social interactions. However, due to varying stereotypes associated with overweight individuals as either jolly or lazy, bodyweight may have a systematic influence on the perception of emotion. Recent work has suggested that by experimentally increasing body-weight cues, happy expressions look happier and sadder expressions look less sad than healthy weight faces. Previous research was carried out with samples from an American university and an Arab university, and since emotions can differ across cultures, we carried out a conceptual replication of these studies with a UK sample. Using two forced-choice perceptual decision tasks, participants were asked to click the face that looked happier in one task and in the other task click the face that looked sadder. We found that…

**Tags:** Other   

---



**Name:** Oisean Burnett

**Supervisor:** Alessio Fracasso

**Title:** Saccadic Suppression: An Active or Passive Source?

**Abstract:** Abstract Humans typically perform around three eye movements per second in natural conditions, producing shifts that should result in blurring. However, visual sensitivity is suppressed in a phenomenon called saccadic suppression. Debates over the last 20 years have produced two origins for this phenomenon, one passive in which suppression is explained by temporal masking and retinal process during saccade execution, and a second, active in which extraretinal signals during preparation suppress processing centrally. This study aimed to investigate whether saccadic suppression is not only a function of execution but is involved in the planning of eye movements, by introducing saccadic inhibition to a classic saccadic suppression paradigm. Inhibition was shown to decrease the effects of saccadic suppression, providing support for an active origin, though further research is required to investigate how exactly this occurs. 

**Tags:** Other   

---



**Name:** Molly Burr

**Supervisor:** Ben Jones

**Title:** Does the Dark Triad Predict Psychological Climate for Sexual Assault? The Role of Narcissism, Machiavellianism and Psychopathy in Explaining Attitudes Towards Reporting Sexual Harassment.

**Abstract:** Unwanted verbal or physical advances of a sexual nature, known as sexual harassment, creates a degrading and offensive environment that has been reported frequently in professional contexts. This study investigates how specific personality traits may relate to attitudes towards reporting sexual harassment in the workplace. The purpose being to understand if Narcissism, Machiavellianism and Psychopathy, known as the Dark Triad, would effect the psychological climate for sexual harassment, impacting on a women’s job and psychological outcomes. In this online study carried out on FaceResearch.org, participants (n=77) completed both the Psychological Climate for Sexual Harassment (PCSH) Questionnaire and Dirty Dozen Questionnaire. Regression analysis was used on the results, with PCSH score as the outcome variable and dark triad scores and participant sex as predictors. The wider implications of these results will provide important contribution to research intersecting gender, workplace climate, and sexual harassment in order to improve outcomes. 

**Tags:** Other   

---
