



## Surnames beginning with O {-}

**Name:** Kristina Anna Maria Oberg

**Supervisor:** Linda Moxey

**Title:** Communication Apprehension and Imagined Interactions: Does communication anxiety influence individuals' use of retroactive and proactive imagined interactions?

**Abstract:** Imagined interactions are the mental interactions and communications individuals have with other people. Imagined interactions take place entirely in a persons mind and can be endlessly varied; they may involve past or future scenarios, take place in varying locations, and encompass a whole range of feelings and emotions. The aim of this study is to explore the relationship between individuals' communication apprehension (i.e. the anxiety experienced from anticipated or real communication with other people) and their use of retroactive (past) and proactive (future) imagined interactions. Participants will be asked to fill out online questionnaires of moderated and unmoderated items from the Survey of Imagined Interactions (SII; Honeycutt, 2010) measuring retroactive and proactive imagined interactions, and the Personal Report of Communication Apprehension scale (PRCA-24; McCroskey, 1982) measuring communication apprehension. 

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language),  Individual Differences  

---



**Name:** Alayah Okhai

**Supervisor:** Ben Jones

**Title:** Examining the impact that facial attractiveness has on perceptions of competency within gender stereotyped job roles.

**Abstract:** This study seeks to reveal situations in which beauty might be detrimental for job applicants. The aim is to investigate the impact that facial attractiveness has over people judgements of competence within job roles that are stereotyped. This research builds on previous studies while also providing confirmatory support that physical attractiveness discrimination is still pertinent issue within this modern age. The experiment is a between-subjects design with each participant being randomly assigned to one of four rating conditions: females working on a shop floor in retail; males working on a shop floor in retail; females running a large company; and males running a large company. A correlational analysis between pre-rated attractiveness scores and competency ratings for each condition will be carried out. A test for comparing elements of a correlation matrix will also be conducted to investigate whether the effect was stronger for the male or female faces.

**Tags:** Social Psychology   

---

