



## Surnames beginning with M {-}

**Name:** Douglas Macfarlane

**Supervisor:** Larry Barsalou

**Title:** Assessing Situated and Non-situated Measures of Mindfulness and Their External Validity

**Abstract:** This study is centred around comparing measures of mindfulness. Two self-report instruments are compared: one measuring mindfulness in a general sense (FFMQ) and one measuring mindfulness in specific situations (SAM²). It will be studied how these measures correlate, along with correlations with a behavioural measure of mindfulness (a breath-awareness task) and ratings of emotions. Participants were asked to complete the Five Facets of Mindfulness Questionnaire (FFMQ) and the Situated Assessment Method (SAM²). They were then asked to read 6 emotion-provoking situations, and to rate their subsequent emotional valence and arousal. Finally, participants were asked to be aware of their breathing for ten minutes, and to press a clicker each time they lost this awareness. Results will be analysed to determine any correlations. It is expected that there will be little agreement between the FFMQ and SAM², that both measures will predict valence and arousal, and performance in the breath test.

**Tags:** Mental Health and Wellbeing,  Applied Psychology  

---



**Name:** Kimberley Macnaughton

**Supervisor:** David Simmons

**Title:** Using Virtual Reality to Explore Individual Differences in the Processing of Visual Information

**Abstract:** This exploratory study aims to investigate the relationship between autistic traits, systemising and visual processing in adults using Virtual Reality (VR). A total number of 60 participants interacted with a three-dimensional environment where they were asked to complete the Rey-Osterrieth complex figure test (ROCF).      Participants were first asked to complete the Autism Quotient (AQ), a self-report questionnaire aiming to capture traits associated with the autism spectrum of typical intelligence. Upon completion, they were invited into a VR environment where they were asked to copy the ROCF and then immediately recall and draw it again without reference. Participants then completed the Systemising Quotient (SQ), a self-report questionnaire designed to analyse an individual’s tendency to systemise, before being put back into VR and asked to recall and draw the ROCF image again. Participant performance for all conditions (copy, immediate recall and delayed recall) were recorded and scored using Perceptual and Organisational Scoring. The AQ and SQ score will be compared with these during data analysis in order to determine if there is a relationship between these traits and differences in visual processing of the complex figure in three dimensions.     This study was conducted in conjunction with two other final year projects and therefore, the data collected was shared across these projects.

**Tags:** Individual Differences   

---



**Name:** Ebba Magnusson

**Supervisor:** Emily Nordmann

**Title:** Individuals attitudes towards swearing in gendered speaker-target contexts

**Abstract:** This quantitative study aims to investigate how individuals evaluate different types of swear words in gendered speaker-target contexts. The existing literature looks at the role of swear words semantic category (e.g. religious, sexual, scatological) in terms of their offensiveness. Some research has looked at how gender influences the perception of swear words and how they are used, and the effects of contextual factors (e.g. public, private settings). However, there is limited research on how the interaction between factors of swear word type and gender in a speaker-target context affect how the emotional content of swear words are evaluated. To address this gap, this study examines how speaker- and target gender affects how individuals evaluate the valence (good, bad) and arousal (intensity) of gendered and gender-neutral swear words. The implications of this research will be discussed and future recommendations suggested based on results.

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language)   

---



**Name:** Antonella Maria Aurelia Marsella

**Supervisor:** Dale Barr

**Title:** The influence of emotional prosody on language comprehension

**Abstract:** This study investigated whether emotional prosody aids resolving ambiguity, and whether affective prosody provides a cue that is immediately used by listeners in language comprehension. To do so, the researcher designed an experiment using homophones. These are words pronounced in the same way but with different spellings and meanings. Therefore, they create ambiguity in the listeners. Given that some of the meanings of homophones have a stronger affective valence compared to the respective ones (e.g. mousse/moose), the homophones were divided into three categories (happy/sad/neutral). In the experiment, participants heard commands (e.g. Click on mousse) expressing either an emotional prosody (happy/sad) or a neutral one. The recordings were either emotionally congruent or incongruent with the target homophone. Additionally, volunteers saw on the screen four images, two representing each meaning of the homophones and two distractors. Participants were told to click on the image they thought it was mentioned. Fixation time and eye gaze were recorded through the eye-tracking device. The data were analysed using ANOVAs. The researcher expected to see a difference in eye gaze and fixation time depending on whether the prosody was congruent with the target homophone or not.   

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language)   

---



**Name:** Jamie Maskall

**Supervisor:** Guillaume Rousselet

**Title:** Is it hot in here or is it just me? : An exploration of the relationship between Climate Science Intelligence and levels of Eco-Anxiety experienced in response to climate change.

**Abstract:** Previous research has reported that individuals who work in climate-related professions experience high environment-related anxiety possibly due to increased climate-science intelligence/awareness. The current study aims to explore whether climate-science intelligence moderates an individual’s anxiety response to large scale ecological change. Establishing a better understanding of eco-anxiety and which factors moderate it could prove extremely useful for mental health professionals as climate awareness increases in the general public.  Using an online questionnaire, participants completed the Neuroticism, Extroversion and Conscientiousness sections of the NEO Five-Factor Inventory as well as the Ordinary Climate Science Intelligence Scale. Participants were shown three ‘news articles’: each with a different locus of control of the reader for ability to enact change on the environmental issue discussed. Participants completed a state-anxiety questionnaire in response to each of the stimuli. Correlational analysis and Multiple linear regression were applied to the data.

**Tags:** Individual Differences,  Mental Health and Wellbeing,  Applied Psychology 

---




**Name:** Carl Mc Nelis

**Supervisor:** Lorna Morrow

**Title:** Exploring the Effects of an Online Mental Health Resource on Wellbeing Amongst Undergraduate Students at the University of Glasgow: A Mixed-Methods Analysis

**Abstract:** Concerns about wellbeing on university campuses in the U.K. are rising due to increased rates of poor mental health being reported by students. Several personal and institutional barriers exist that prevent students from getting the help they may require. As such, novel strategies to improve wellbeing amongst students should be explored. This brief interventional study assessed the efficacy of an online mental health resource to promote wellbeing amongst undergraduate students. A between-groups design was utilized, followed by MANCOVA to determine whether participants in the experimental group experienced significant improvement to their wellbeing and health-promoting behaviours at the end of the one-week intervention period. Additional analyses were used to determine associations between time spent engaging with the resource, perceived usefulness of the resource, and wellbeing outcomes. Finally, open-ended questionnaires were used to learn about participant’s perception of the resource, their experience using it, and how to improve it for future use.

**Tags:** Mental Health and Wellbeing   

---




**Name:** Clare McAteer

**Supervisor:** Linda Moxey

**Title:** A study on the correlation between Metaphor Interpretation and Emotional Expression with Depression.

**Abstract:** This study examines metaphor interpretation and emotional expression and whether they are correlated with depression. The methods of the study include participants completing three questionnaires; the Metaphor Interpretation Test, the Berkeley Expressivity Questionnaire and the PHQ-9. These questionnaires feature a Likert scale and will be completed online on Experimentum. The results will be analysed using four correlations; a correlation between metaphor interpretation and emotional expression, the correlation between metaphor interpretation and depression, the correlation between emotion expression and metaphor interpretation and the correlation between emotion expression and depression. The implications of the results will be discussed in relation to potential associations of metaphor interpretation and emotion expression with depression and how metaphor interpretation and emotion expression skills may be developed or improved if associated negatively with depression scores. 

**Tags:** Mental Health and Wellbeing   

---




**Name:** Jason McBurnie

**Supervisor:** Ian Bushnell

**Title:** A Qualitative Study to Explore Healthcare Professionals' Experiences, Understanding, Perceptions, and Attitudes to Organ Donation in Neonatal Intensive Care

**Abstract:** Few studies have examined the attitudes and knowledge of healthcare professionals’ regarding organ donation and even less so in paediatrics and neonates, where there is a paucity of information and debate in the literature. The current study aims to gather healthcare professionals’ experiences of organ donation in neonatal intensive care from the Royal Hospital for Children, Glasgow. Challenges to organ donation and impact of the perceived quality of end of life care in NICU will also be explored. Semi-structured interviews will be used to collect data from 4-5 healthcare professionals. Thematic analysis will be performed following Braun and Clarke’s (2006) six step method. Audio recordings of all interviews will be destroyed upon closure and completion of the study. Themes detected and information obtained from this study will help shape approaches taken to end of life care and organ donation in neonates and staff education.

**Tags:** Applied Psychology   

---




**Name:** Laura McCabe

**Supervisor:** Martin Lages

**Title:** Face Recognition Test: How Good is Your Face Memory?

**Abstract:** This study examines the impact of semantic information on the ability to recognise face images. The between-subject design equally split 30 participants into 2 conditions: names and pseudowords. Pseudowords contain little semantic information and cannot be visually represented, therefore they are more difficult to encode and retrieve successfully in long term memory. In addition, it is commonplace to associate a face and name because they can be phonologically and visually represented. It is hypothesised that face images will be better recognised when paired with a face. Participants were assessed on their total accuracy of recognition, response time and confidence that their response was correct during an old/new recognition test of 100 face images. The results were analysed using t-test and will be further analysed using logistic regression. The results, so far, suggest that face images paired with a name were recognised significantly better than face images paired with a nonword. 

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language)   

---




**Name:** Callum McCluskey

**Supervisor:** Christoph Scheepers

**Title:** Syntactic priming of ¬by-prepositions and object transitivity

**Abstract:** This study builds on current literature investigating syntactic priming in English native speakers. It is a partial replication of work by Ziegler et al. (2019) examining the effect of by-prepositions on priming, with the change that sentence comprehension, as opposed to sentence (re)production, is taken as a measure of priming success. Transitivity is also considered as a secondary potential moderator. Participants rated sentences in response to the question: “How does each of these sentences sound to you?” responding on a Likert scale of one (sounds very weird) to seven (sounds totally fine). Critical prime-target sentence pairs were interspersed with distractor trials, while the true aims of the experiment were withheld from participants. Results will be analysed using ordinal logistic regression with maximal random effects. We predict that target sentences containing by-prepositions will be rated as more acceptable following prime sentences also containing by-prepositions, providing further evidence for fully abstract syntax.

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language)   

---




**Name:** Jay McDonald

**Supervisor:** Lorna Morrow

**Title:** Are you an Impostor? The Effects of Formal Recognition on Impostor Phenomenon

**Abstract:** This study investigates the effects of formal recognition on Impostor Phenomenon (IP), and utilises a preventative intervention. Using a control and experimental group, participants were asked to fill in the Clance Impostor Phenomenon Scale (CIPS) questionnaire, to determine their levels of IP over the course of two weeks. After the first week’s questionnaire, the experimental group will watch a short informative video about the effects of IP, and the widespread nature of it, as well as ways to help it. This is to allow the participants to think more in-depth about this phenomenon, and effects, before answering the CIPS questionnaire. The control group takes the same questionnaire as week one for comparison, without seeing the video. These items are then scored and compared between each week for each participant. A t-test was then applied to each week to check comparisons, and to measure the effect of the intervention on participants.

**Tags:** Mental Health and Wellbeing   

---




**Name:** Emma McKeever

**Supervisor:** NA NA

**Title:** Assessing an individual’s future pro-environmental behaviour

**Abstract:** Past research which focuses on increasing openness and acceptance of threatening information, to an individual’s self-integrity, have successfully utilized self-affirmation manipulations to achieve this. This research has mainly been applied to threatening information that details how individual’s behaviour (e.g., smoking & unsafe sex) can have detrimental impacts on their own health. There is an emerging body of research applying this manipulation to information surrounding how human behaviour is having a detrimental impact on your environment and in turn affecting us. Studies applying self-affirmation manipulations in this context have mainly focused on specific behaviours (e.g., water and food waste) that are affecting the climate. However, to my knowledge there has only been one study (Choi et al., 2019) has found that this manipulation does assist to increase acceptance of a broader message surrounding the multiple behaviours that are causing the climate crisis and this increased acceptance is hypothesised to increase intention to engage in environmental-friendly behaviours. Therefore, this study aims to replicate their findings while furthering research assessing individual’s actual future pro-environmental behaviour. The pro-environmental behaviour that will be assessed in the study will be how often individuals initiate conversations with their significant other (i.e., family & friends) surrounding the climate crisis. As studies have shown that an effective way to increase people’s knowledge of the climate crisis is to engage in conversations with your significant others (Goldberg et al., 2019).

**Tags:** Mental Health and Wellbeing   

---




**Name:** Iain Mckirdy

**Supervisor:** Monika Harvey

**Title:** Differential decay rates in access and phenomenal consciousness

**Abstract:** Our study aims to investigate the nature of decay rates in phenomenal and access consciousness, these being what having an experience feels like and the cognitive availability of information for report, respectively. We utilise a visual summary statistic paradigm, where participants are shown a brief array of coloured letters, followed by a cue indicating one of the letters and then are asked to report both the cued letter and the colour diversity of the whole array. 15 participants were tested across 2 sessions, in session 1 we manipulated the delay between stimulus offset and the cue being given, in order to compare the decay of colour diversity and cued letter information. In session 2 instead of asking for a colour diversity judgement we asked participants to recall as many letters as they could from the array, in order to compare decay rates of this maximum letter information to colour diversity.

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language)   

---




**Name:** Julie McLeod

**Supervisor:** Esther Papies

**Title:** Information Targeting Justifications for Meat Eating and Plant-Based Food Intake Affects Food Shopping Behaviour

**Abstract:** Introduction:Humans eat more meat now than ever before despite concerns for animal well being in factory farms, evidence that meat eating is detrimental to human health, contributing to the development of diabetes, stoke, heart disease and cancer, and research showing that animal agriculture is a large contributor to climate change. Conversely, plant-based foods have been found to reduce the risk of and even reverse the development of such diseases and are far more ethical and sustainable to farm, yet are eaten far less than meat. Consequently, measures must be taken to attempt to reduce meat-eating and increase plant-based food consumption. While informing individuals of ethical, health and environmental issues has been found to reduce meat eating, these effects have been limited as only 8% of the global population eats a meat-free diet. Additionally, few measures have been effective in increasing consumption of plant-based foods and meat-alternatives.The 4N scale was developed to identify the primary rationalisations people use to align their beliefs and attitudes with their choice to continue consuming meat in light of the evidence above and found that these rationalisations are, that meat-eating is natural, necessary, normal and nice. This study aimed to examine if information tailored to challenge these rationalisations was more effective than non-tailored and control information in reducing meat and increasing plant-based food purchasing behaviours. Methods:N = 586 participants completed the 4N questionnaire to determine which rationalisation was their primary justification for eating meat and were then randomly assigned into three conditions: matched (n = 192), where they were given information which challenged their highest rationalisation for eating meat; unmatched (n = 164), where they were given information challenging their lowest rationalisation for eating meat; and a control group (n = 230) who received information unrelated to eating meat or plant-based foods. They were presented with the information in the form of a flyer advertisement then asked to completed an online shopping simulation in which each participant, in three conditions, was shown the same 50 food products and asked if they would add the item to their basket or not. Finally, they were asked to indicate how many days a week they eat meat at breakfast, lunch and dinner. Separately, the number of meat and plant-based products added to each participants basket was compared between the conditions. Results:An initial one way ANOVA identified a significant difference between the conditions for the number of meat products added to participants baskets, but not for the plant-based products. Further t-tests revealed a significant difference between the matched and control conditions, indicating that tailored information challenging individuals highest rationalisation is effective in reducing the number of meat products they add to their basket. No significant difference was found between the unmatched and control conditions for meat products or any of the thee conditions for plant-based products, suggesting that information challenging the 4N rationalisations must be tailored to individuals highest rationalisation to reduce meat purchasing behaviour and that information challenging the 4N's is not sufficient, whether tailored or not, for increasing plant-based food purchasing behaviour.Discussion:The current study is a novel experiment matching specific information to specific rationalisations for meat eating and the results may be used to inform health campaigns and advertising of the necessity to tailor information in order to reduce meat purchasing behaviour. The results may also be used in the creation of new or addition to current health apps which could attempt to discourage unhealthy meat-eating behaviour through tailored information.

**Tags:** Other   

---




**Name:** Holly Amber Staton McMahon

**Supervisor:** David Simmons

**Title:** Music Preferences in children with Autism and a Validation of the Children’s Glasgow Sensory Questionnaire (C-GSQ).

**Abstract:** This study examines music preferences in children with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) as well as the effectiveness of the Children’s Glasgow Sensory Questionnaire (C-GSQ).Sensory sensitivities (although not exclusive to ASD) are said to affect the majority of the ASD population. The study looks into sensory sensitivities specifically in the auditory modality to see if children with ASD listen to and use music differently from their typically developing peers.The C-GSQ was completed by children and has been validated by being compared and contrasted with the Glasgow Sensory Questionnaire (GSQ) and the Parent Glasgow Sensory Questionnaire (P-GSQ) which was completed by a parent or guardian. Children also completed a 3-question qualitative questionnaire on music. This research is beneficial for children with ASD and anyone in contact with the disorder, to give a better understanding of sensory sensitivities specifically within the auditory modality and how music is involved in this. 

**Tags:** Other   

---




**Name:** Morven Miller

**Supervisor:** Linda Moxey

**Title:** An examination of the relationship between rumination and interpretation bias in people with varying levels of depression

**Abstract:** This study aims to examine the link between rumination and interpretation bias in participants with all levels of depression. Previously, this has been studied mainly in participants with major depression, and a significant relationship has been found. However, often non-depressed participants are not included, and no research has used participants with a range of depression scores to test the relationship. To measure participants’ interpretation bias, 20 ambiguous scenarios were used. After reading each scenario, participants were asked to consider the most likely outcome or reason for the situation. Three possible outcomes were then presented, and participants were asked to rate each one from three to one; most to least likely. The outcomes were either positive, negative or neutral. They also completed the RRS to measure rumination, and the PHQ-9 for depression. The results will be analysed using Kendall correlations between each of the factors.

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language),  Mental Health and Wellbeing  

---




**Name:** Belen Montabes de la Cruz

**Supervisor:** Lars Muckli

**Title:** Investigating Sound Content in the Early Visual Cortex of Aphantasia Participants: A standard fMRI study

**Abstract:** Aphantasia is a condition experienced by otherwise healthy individuals who are unable to form voluntary visual imagery. To date, the neural mechanisms underlying the condition remain largely unknown. To bridge this gap, we investigated whether sound content could be decoded from the early visual cortex of five aphantasic participants using multivoxel pattern analysis (MVPA). We utilised Vetter, Smith and Muckli’s (2014) experimental procedures, which presents blindfolded participants with three categories of natural sounds. We report that although the classifier had above chance performance in all of our ROIS, none of the classifications reached statistical significance.  Additionally, and as previously noted in the literature, our participants scored low in the VVIQ and SUIS questionnaires, and on a binocular rivalry experiment which quantifies visual imagery abilities. Our findings are further discussed in the light of Smith, Vetter and Muckli's original results and in relation to research on visual imagery, multisensory processing and predictive coding models. 

**Tags:** Cognitive Neuroscience,  Individual Differences  

---




**Name:** Megan Claudia Montgomery

**Supervisor:** Maria Gardani

**Title:** The prevalence of insomnia and insomnia symptoms following mild traumatic brain injury: a systematic review and meta-analysis

**Abstract:** This systematic review investigates the prevalence of insomnia and insomnia symptoms amongst individuals diagnosed with mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI). Five electronic databases were searched from inception to 2nd December 2019. The searches were then exported to EndNote and any duplicates removed, before two independent reviewers screened the titles and abstracts for relevance using Rayyan QCRI. Full texts of articles potentially suitable for inclusion were subsequently obtained and assessed. Full-text articles published in English in peer-reviewed journals, and including adults with a clinical mTBI diagnosis, were eligible for inclusion. Studies that assessed insomnia and/or insomnia symptoms post-mTBI were included. Each study was then quality-assessed and the relevant data extracted. The aim is to produce a narrative review of the results from the included studies, accompanied by tabulated displays of the studies’ details and a summary of the findings. If sufficient data are available, it will be pooled using meta-analysis techniques.

**Tags:** Mental Health and Wellbeing,  Other  

---




**Name:** Devika Morjaria

**Supervisor:** Lorna Morrow

**Title:** Factors that Influence Students’ Study Abroad Experiences and Outcomes: A Systematic Literature Review and Qualitative Study

**Abstract:** Study abroad is a phenomenon by which students can complete a part of their course in a different country and gain a variety of experiences. Whilst this overseas experience can bring many opportunities for growth and development, it can also present many challenges. This study examines factors that affect the overseas course related experience in 2 parts. Firstly, a systematic review of literature (SLR) is conducted to find factors study abroad factors and their outcome. Social, cultural, academic and practical factors are found to either improve or dampen the study abroad experience. To investigate these categories of factors further, 2 focus groups with returned study abroad students (n=10) are conducted. Students are asked what their social, cultural and academic experiences were abroad. The focus group transcripts are approached using thematically analysis. The implications for this study are discussed in terms of future research and the application for higher education.

**Tags:** Educational Psychology   

---




**Name:** Hannah Emer Mulvihill

**Supervisor:** Heather Cleland Woods

**Title:** An Empirical Investigation of the Self-Regulation and Social Media Use Association, and the Influence of these Variables on Sleep Quality in Undergraduate University Students

**Abstract:** Research concerning self-regulation and its relationships with social media use and sleep quality among adolescence, and the effects increased social media use and sleep quality have on wellbeing, suggests the importance of underlying cognitive processes concerning impulse control and self-monitoring in a student's quality of life. Considering this, it is not known if self-regulation and social media use together have the ability to predict sleep quality. Therefore, this study will aim to investigate whether reported self-regulation levels and social media usage can predict the sleep quality of adolescents.  Participants will complete four scales online via the survey site Experimentum: the Sleep Condition Indicator, the Short Self-Regulation Questionnaire, the Index of Nighttime Offline Distress and the Nighttime Specific Social Media Use Scale. To analyse, correlations and multiple linear regressions will be utilised.   

**Tags:** Mental Health and Wellbeing   

---




**Name:** Jennifer Lauren Murch

**Supervisor:** Phil McAleer

**Title:** Deception Detection Through Voices

**Abstract:** This study investigated deception detection accuracy through voices in individuals with varying levels of generalised trust. The aim was to see whether it is the acoustic cues or the verbal content that aids accurate deception detection and how this differs in individuals with different levels of generalised trust. Research demonstrates that attending to verbal cues may be a more accurate diagnostic tool for detecting deception, however, police manuals still direct observers to attend to misleading visual factors. There are a limited number of studies that aim to differentiate between the role of verbal content and vocal cues in order to pin-point what exactly it is about the voice that aids deception detection. Participants were recruited online and completed a series of short questionnaires, including the generalised trust questionnaire, followed by listening to audio recordings of both truthful and deceptive statements and made veracity judgements of each.  Findings will be discussed and directions for future research will be explored.

**Tags:** Social Psychology,  Individual Differences  

---




**Name:** Nairn Murray

**Supervisor:** Emily Nordmann

**Title:** Help Seeking, Study Strategies and Academic Achievement

**Abstract:** Research suggests a positive correlation between the use of Self-Regulated Learning (SRL) techniques and academic achievement. Help seeking is said to be one of the most effective SRL techniques, yet the introduction of lecture capture in academic institutions allows students to re-watch lectures to recap any missed information. We therefore aim to explore the relationship between help-seeking behaviours, lecture capture and performance, and whether students continue to adopt help seeking behaviours when given access to lecture capture. Multiple regression analyses will be performed. In one model we will use data from students who had access to lecture capture and the predictors will be lecture capture usage, lecture capture strategy, and course grade. In a second model that includes all participants, lecture capture availability and course grade will be predictors. 

**Tags:** Educational Psychology   

---




**Name:** Nicola Murray

**Supervisor:** Rachael Jack

**Title:** "Staring Socioeconomic Status in the Face": A Validation Study of What Facial Features Drive Socioeconomic Status Perceptions

**Abstract:** People tend to draw trait inferences from the facial appearance of others, even with short exposure. One of these inferences being socioeconomic status (SES). However, there has been limited research on what facial features drive SES perceptions. In the current study we aim to validate models from previous research which tested the association between facial morphology and perceived socioeconomic status, to test whether there is agreement on which facial features make someone look richer or poorer. Participants observed pairs of same-gendered faces generated from the previous models. They were then asked to choose which one looked either richer or poorer depending on the instructions. For each model we calculated how often the participant responded correctly to the face, then calculated the proportion accuracy. This overall accuracy was then compared to chance in a single-sample t-test for each model. Results show 4 models that were not statistically significant.  

**Tags:** Social Psychology   

---
