



## Surnames beginning with J {-}

**Name:** Lucy Jamieson

**Supervisor:** Maria Gardani

**Title:** A Thematic Analysis of Student Athletes’ Transition to University, Implications on Sleep, and the Role of Competitive Sport Involvement

**Abstract:** This study qualitatively explores the experiences of student athletes’ as they adapt to university life. It explores the unique transition experienced by female athletes, with a focus on the implications had on their sleep during their first year, and the role of competitive sport involvement. The aim of the study being to determine whether student athletes are at an advantage for a successful transition or if they face additional challenges as a result of their athletic commitments. Four semi-structured focus groups gave participants the opportunity to reflect and share their transitional experiences. A thematic analysis, as defined by Braun and Clarke (2006) was employed to identify themes and patterns. Three main overarching themes with relevant subthemes were identified: Sleep Dysregulation, An Overwhelming Transition, and Sport Aids Adjustment. The implications of findings are discussed with a focus on increasing awareness of the impact of transitions experienced by student athletes on sleep and their overall well-being.

**Tags:** Mental Health and Wellbeing   

---



**Name:** Mari Jamshidi

**Supervisor:** Kerry Kilborn

**Title:** Are there gender differences in resilience which can predict mental health?

**Abstract:** This study investigates whether gender differences in resilience exist which can predict mental health. The effect of gender and resilience on mental health is important as it may be relevant to clinical interventions. This could explain the variation in diagnostic rates of mental illness between men and women. We could learn that resilience or specific dimensions of resilience should be targeted in men/women to improve mental wellbeing. Participants were asked to complete two standardised scales: Resilience Scale for Adults (RSA) and Mental Health Continuum Short Form (MHC-SF). We expect to find gender differences in resilience or certain aspects of resilience which in turn predict mental wellbeing. To identify gender differences in resilience, RSA overall scores and scores for the six components between two levels (male/female) will be compared using independent sample t-tests. Multiple regression analysis will be conducted to establish whether gender and resilience can effectively predict mental health.

**Tags:** Mental Health and Wellbeing   

---




**Name:** Alejandra Jordano de Castro

**Supervisor:** Niamh Stack

**Title:** Paradoxical learners: An exploration into the experience of school of multi-exceptional students and their mothers

**Abstract:** Professionals in gifted education are becoming increasingly aware of the fact that students can paradoxically have both areas of high ability and coexisting learning disabilities. These students are known as multi-exceptional and are considered to be one of the most misunderstood of all exceptionalities. This exploratory study aimed to gain insight into the lived experiences of multi-exceptional students and their mothers in school. Five mother-child dyads took part in an hour-long audio recorded semi-structured interview where they reflected on their lived experiences relating to multi-exceptionality and school. Areas explored within the school environment included challenges faced, support (or lack of support) received, teacher and peer relationships, and emotions relating to school. The interviews were transcribed, and thematic analysis was applied to the data. Analysis of emerging themes offered insight into the lived experiences of both mothers and multi-exceptional learners. These findings are further discussed concerning their contribution to existing literature on multi-exceptionality. Finally, limitations of the study offer indications for future qualitative and quantitative research endeavours within this field.   

**Tags:** Educational Psychology   

---




**Name:** ANUSHRI Jothirmayam

**Supervisor:** Kevin Wilson-Smith

**Title:** Dark Tetrad of personality; influence on academic majors and vocational interests

**Abstract:** The Dark triad of personality (Machiavellianism, narcissism, and psychopathy) are distinct, yet related traits that are socially malevolent (Paulhus and Williams, 2002). The Dark triad has been implicated to influence vocational and academic choices. Individuals with higher dark triad traits place emphasis on attaining power, status, money and admiration and are therefore drawn towards enterprising, artistic or realistic vocations that facilitate achievement of such personal gains. Such individuals are also averse to vocations that do not benefit them but rather involve social interactions or helping other individuals (Lee et al., 2013).  On an academic level, business and law students score higher on the Dark Triad in comparison to psychology or life-science students as these majors aid the pathway to their ideal career that most aligns with their personality (Vedel and Thompson, 2017). The current research aims to elucidate whether aforementioned findings can be extended to the Dark tetrad; sadism in addition to the triad. It was hypothesized that individuals within business/law degrees will score higher on the tetrad indicated by a global Dark tetrad index, in comparison to psychology students. Moreover, they will prefer artistic, enterprising or realistic vocations and be averse to social vocations due to perceived career bias (Jonason et al., 2014). Participants (n = 219), comprised of university students, were administered with short dark triad (SD3) and varieties of sadistic tendencies (VAST) questionnaires. Result analysis will utilize one-way ANOVAs and post-hoc TukeyHSD and are to be confirmed.   References  Jonason, P., Wee, S., Li, N., &amp; Jackson, C. (2014). Occupational niches and the Dark Triad traits. Personality And Individual Differences, 69, 119-123. doi: 10.1016/j.paid.2014.05.024  Lee, K., Ashton, M., Wiltshire, J., Bourdage, J., Visser, B., &amp; Gallucci, A. (2012). Sex, Power, and Money: Prediction from the Dark Triad and Honesty-Humility. European Journal Of Personality, 27(2), 169-184. doi: 10.1002/per.1860  Paulhus, D., &amp; Williams, K. (2002). The Dark Triad of personality: Narcissism, Machiavellianism, and psychopathy. Journal Of Research In Personality, 36(6), 556-563. doi: 10.1016/s0092-6566(02)00505-6  Vedel, A., &amp; Thomsen, D. (2017). The Dark Triad across academic majors. Personality And Individual Differences, 116, 86-91. doi: 10.1016/j.paid.2017.04.030   

**Tags:** Social Psychology,  Other  

---

