




## Surnames beginning with G {-}

**Name:** Elisa Gaillard

**Supervisor:** David Simmons

**Title:** Using Virtual Reality to explore individual differences in trends of visual information processing ng using VR

**Abstract:**  The present exploratory study investigated individual differences in visual processing trends using Virtual Reality (VR). 93 participants took part in a memory and drawing task in VR of the Rey-Osterrieth Complex Figure (ROCF), using the 3D drawing software TiltBrush. They also completed personality questionnaires. The AQ and ADHD questionnaires measured autistic and ADHD traits in our non-clinical sample. Cluster and sequence analyses were conducted to observe patterns in drawings. Four groups of patterns were identified, all highlighting different cognitive processing styles. Results were analysed along with ROCF, AQ and ADHD scores to search for correlations between personality traits and processing patterns. Completion times and ROCF scores were also used to identify the most effective drawing pattern. 

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language)   

---



**Name:** Skye Galloway

**Supervisor:** Phil McAleer

**Title:** The Effects of Oral Contraceptives on Perceived Vocal Attractiveness

**Abstract:** Previous literature has suggested that changes to female hormonal levels caused by the use of the contraceptive pill decreases the perceived attractiveness of masculine features. However, more recently, studies testing the effect of oral contraceptive use on perceived facial attractiveness, designed to be well-powered rectifying issues with previous studies, found no significant results (Marcinkowska et al., 2019). This research to date has largely focused on visual attractiveness with little known about similar effects in the auditory domain. As such, this study will test the effect of contraceptive pill use on perceived vocal attractiveness ratings. Female participants either using hormonal or non-hormonal contraception were asked to rate 43 male voices on both attractiveness and masculinity using a 7-point Likert scale from extremely masculine/attractive to extremely unattractive/masculine. Results will be discussed in terms of how hormones influence the perception of masculine features across varying modalities and the impact on mate attraction.

**Tags:** Social Psychology   

---




**Name:** Alejandro Garcia Alva

**Supervisor:** Kevin Wilson-Smith

**Title:** Refugee Core Beliefs

**Abstract:** Refugees have been found to be a vulnerable demographic, often prone to suffering from mental health problems. Disorders like post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), depression, and anxiety are the most prevalent amongst refugees; according to the literature. Indeed, the literature has also found that often the mental health problems are the result of pre-migration and settling factors. However, there has been no research into how refugee's core beliefs are affected as a result of being forced to leave their country, and how this contributes to mental health problems. The present study seeks to address the current gap in the literature by means of qualitative analysis of the refugee's experience. 

**Tags:** Mental Health and Wellbeing   

---




**Name:** Shahrukh Gill

**Supervisor:** Helena Paterson

**Title:** Validating a new measure on person perception using mental health vignettes: A SMHFA intervention study.

**Abstract:** Introduction. There is a large taboo surrounding mental illness in society. The purpose of this study is to validate a new measure of person perception that we have developed. This study will involve a questionnaire based on vignettes. Parallel to this, a Scotland’s Mental Health First Aid (SMHFA) course was carried out to measure the difference between facets of stigma before and after the SMHFA intervention.   Methods. Three measures were designed to estimate social distance and interaction with individuals, with two vignettes focusing on depression and anxiety a control vignette with no discernible mental illness. Through the use of the social distance, intervention and confidence scale we can measure stigma.

**Tags:** Mental Health and Wellbeing   

---




**Name:** Hanna Glandorf

**Supervisor:** Esther Papies

**Title:** The effect of decentering on the link between consumption simulation and bodily responses to food cues

**Abstract:** Decentering, a component of mindfulness, has been proposed to help people experience less cravings. According to the theory of grounded cognition, decentering weakens the effect of consumption simulations on conscious desire and bodily responses like salivation. Based on recent suggestions, this effect might even be stronger for domain-specific decentering focused on food thoughts. However, inconsistent findings have raised questions about the potential of decentering. The current study addressed these inconsistencies by having participants (n = 96) listen to audio instructions for general decentering, food-specific decentering and normal viewing (control). Afterwards, they provided saliva samples while looking at crisps and indicated their degree of consumption simulation. Two robust ANCOVAs found consumption simulations to significantly predict crisp salivation. However, no significant differences of this relationship were found between the three instruction types. These findings question the effectiveness of decentering in weakening the relationship between consumption simulations and salivation.

**Tags:** Mental Health and Wellbeing,  Other  

---




**Name:** Emily Jane Greenslade

**Supervisor:** Linda Moxey

**Title:** Role of gender on the effectiveness of CBM-I for depression

**Abstract:** This study aims to examine the effect that gender has cognitive bias modification for interpretations (CBM-I) for depression. It will empirical compare these two groups, to see if the effect was larger for one group or not. There is a long standing gender difference in depression, in both prevalence and how it is presented. This study aims to investigate if these differences influence CBM-I. Participants are asked to fill in the PHQ-9 depression questionnaire, followed by 10 interpretation bias scenarios which they are asked to rank potential outcomes of. This is followed by 50 CBM-I scenarios, where participants are asked to answer a comprehension question after each. The PHQ-9 is then reshown as well as 10 different interpretation bias scenarios. The results from each questionnaire will be analysed, showing if there is a significant difference in the scores before and after the CBM-I section. 

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language),  Mental Health and Wellbeing  

---




**Name:** Laura Greenwood

**Supervisor:** Chiara Horlin

**Title:** A thematic analysis of student’s experiences of a flying trapeze workshop and its impacts

**Abstract:** Student welfare has risen to the forefront in recent years with increased awareness of mental health and the identification of students as a high-risk group due to financial, academic, and peer pressure. This study qualitatively examined students experience of a flying trapeze workshop designed to induce eustress and therefore influence well-being.  After participating in the trapeze workshop students were invited to discuss the experience as part of a follow up focus group one week later. 18 participants took part in focus groups. These focus groups were transcribed and will be analysed using Braun and Clarke’s six step method of thematic analysis. The themes identified will be discussed in light of current literature. Implications and future recommendations will also be discussed.

**Tags:** Mental Health and Wellbeing   

---




**Name:** Rebecca Louise Griffith

**Supervisor:** Lars Muckli

**Title:** Investigating whether there is perceptual bias in mental time travel and whether this influences long-term visual predictions

**Abstract:** Mental time travel is a phenomenon whereby memory allows humans to revisit the past and predict the future. However, there is little understanding of whether prior information affects our ability to mentally time travel. Therefore, this project will investigate whether there is a perceptual bias in mental time travel and how this might affect long-term visual predictions. A previous experiment investigating whether familiarity affected visual predictions in mental time travel was analysed to identify the optimal amount of prior information required to accurately mentally time travel.  Participants viewed frames from four videos of walking routes. A blank period occurred after either 5-35 frames were shown, and participants were asked to ‘mentally simulate’ the walking route. When the video re-engaged, participants performed a 2-alternative forced-choice task to indicate whether the frame shown was earlier or later in time of where they were in their mental simulation. A 2-way repeated-measures ANOVA and t-tests revealed that visual predictions were more precise remembering the past than predicting the future. Although no significant effect was found between the amount of prior information and accuracy in mental time travel, it was evident that a lower number of frames shown before a response trial resulted in higher accuracy in predicting the future.

**Tags:** Cognitive Neuroscience   

---




**Name:** Bethany Griffith

**Supervisor:** Lorna Morrow

**Title:** Theory of mind and student efficacy: does the ability to take another's perspective improve communication of knowledge?

**Abstract:** Current research into Theory of Mind (ToM) is predominantly based upon the phenomenon's importance during development, however, little exists on how it is applied in adulthood. This study investigated the relationship between student’s perspective taking abilities and their written communication skills. The aim was to see whether cognitive empathy (a component of ToM) could predict successful written communication, as this requires the writer understands how their text would be interpreted from a naïve perspective. Participants studying as undergraduate students at the University of Glasgow (n = 48) completed a written assessment based upon BPS Research Digest articles and the EQ- Short (Wakabayashi et al. 2006). Data will be analysed using linear regression models and correlational analyses. Based upon the literature surrounding the benefits of perspective taking, it is hypothesised that student’s ToM abilities will predict successful communication of written knowledge. References:Wakabayashi, A., Baron-Cohen, S., Wheelwright, S., Goldenfeld, N., Delaney, J., Fine, D., Smith, R. &amp; Weil, L. (2006) Development of short forms of the Empathy Quotient (EQ-Short) and the Systemizing Quotient (SQ-Short). Personality and Individual Differences, 41: 929-940  

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language),  Social Psychology  

---




**Name:** Carolina Guidolin

**Supervisor:** Stephany Biello

**Title:** Enhancing photic entrainment: a comparison between 8-OH-DPAT and a 5-HT7 agonist

**Abstract:** Disruption of the circadian synchronisation between our internal biological clock and the external light-dark cycle can have severe psychological and physiological health consequences. Serotonergic drugs can potentiate the effects of light in resetting the circadian clock. In particular, serotonin (5-HT) agonists at the 1A receptor subtype can speed entrainment to a shifted light-dark cycle in animal models. Fewer studies have investigated whether 5-HT7 receptor agonists may also facilitate re-entrainment to a new cycle. This study compared the roles of a 5-HT-1A agonist (8-OH-DPAT), and of a 5-HT7 agonist, in enhancing photic re-entrainment to an 8-h advanced light-dark cycle, as measured by behavioural rhythms in mice (n=16). A repeated-measures ANOVA will be used to analyse rates of re-entrainments a phase angle of re-entrainment to 8 h advanced cycles. It is hypothesised that 5-HT1A and 5-HT7 agonists will both significantly speed entrainment to the advanced light-dark cycles.

**Tags:** Mental Health and Wellbeing,  Applied Psychology,  Other 

---

