




## Surnames beginning with K {-}

**Name:** Anoushka Kapoor

**Supervisor:** Emily Nordmann

**Title:** Hello from the other side: An investigation of perceived discrimination based on accents among Asian speakers in university.

**Abstract:** Accent based discrimination among non-native English speakers is a widely prevalent yet globally accepted form of discrimination. Amongst non-native English speakers, people of colour report more instances of discrimination, with Asian accented speakers being regarded most negatively. The majority of the research on accent-discrimination has been conducted quantitatively, and from the listener’s perspective. Furthermore, international students have historically received negative treatment, yet remain an underrepresented cohort in this research area. Bearing such gaps in the literature in mind, the aim of this qualitative study was to investigate the factors contributing to perceived discrimination based on accents among Asian speakers in university. 14 university students who self-identified as speaking Asian accented English took part in focus group discussions. Factors contributing to perceived discrimination based on accents were identified via a thematic analysis. The theoretical explanations of these findings as well as future implications for this field were discussed in conclusion. 

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language),  Social Psychology  

---



**Name:** Ross Keegan

**Supervisor:** Guillaume Rousselet

**Title:** Judging The Misunderstood: A Pilot Public Stigma Intervention Towards Non-Offending Paedophilia

**Abstract:** The most commonly identified barrier preventing non-offending paedophiles engagement in formal mental health services is stigmatism. A high demand for support has been identified by the current anonymous help services. Encouraging individuals to seek help is both financially and ethically beneficial in tackling child sexual exploitation.   This study pilots a public stigmatism intervention, evaluating its effectiveness and comparing it to an intervention towards alcoholism. A cumulative ordinal regression will be used to analyse the results and an exploratory factor analysis will be implemented to re-affirm the questionnaire design. We expect both interventions will cause a reduction in stigmatising beliefs however there may be some differences comparatively because of the intervention topic.   If reducing stigmatising beliefs, then this would be a viable method of challenging current public opinions towards paedophilia, potentially increasing participation in therapy. Currently the most under used preventative measure.  

**Tags:** Other   

---




**Name:** Marine Keime

**Supervisor:** Kerry Kilborn

**Title:** The effect of language proficiency on moral judgment

**Abstract:** This project aims to investigate the effect of language proficiency on moral judgment. By comparing Native English speakers and participants speaking English as a second language, this study will see whether those two groups have different moral judgment when being presented scenarios such as the Footbridge dilemma. It will investigate the relationship between language proficiency and moral judgment to see if higher proficiency leads to lower utilitarian judgment (for the greater good). This project also aims to find an explanation behind this potential difference, by investigating the participants emotional reaction to the scenarios (thought that Native English speakers have higher emotional processing). Another potential explanation will be investigated which is the participants access to everyday social norms, hypothesized that participants speaking English as their second language have less access to those social norms. At the moment, no significant results have been found between the two groups and their moral judgment.

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language)   

---




**Name:** Jessica Marie Kenny

**Supervisor:** Eugene Dawydiak

**Title:** Contextual differences in abortion stigma: Investigating the influence of individual differences in disgust sensitivity, empathy and just world beliefs

**Abstract:** Stigma is detrimental to the mental and physical health of women who seek abortion, however research has not yet identified individual differences which predict stigmatising attitudes towards abortion. This study aims to determine whether disgust sensitivity, empathy and just world beliefs predict increased abortion stigma. Additionally, this study aims to determine if stigmatising attitudes depend on abortion impetus. Participants were randomly assigned to vignette conditions, where either life circumstances or health issues were stated as a woman’s abortion impetus. Stigma towards the woman was measured using a shortened version of the AQ-27. Participants then completed the Three-Domain Disgust Scale, Interpersonal Reactivity Index and Just World Scale, measuring disgust sensitivity, empathy and just world beliefs, respectively. Correlational analyses and regression models will be used to determine associations between individual differences and abortion stigma. An independent-samples t-test will determine whether abortion impetus elicits significant differences in stigma.

**Tags:** Social Psychology,  Individual Differences  

---




**Name:** Hanan Khalaf

**Supervisor:** David Simmons

**Title:** The utilisation of virtual reality to validate the Frith Happe animations in relation to empathetic responses and autistic traits

**Abstract:** Past evidence has identified autism spectrum disorder to be related to empathetic responses and theory of mind abilities (Livingston et al., 2019; Tavassoli et al., 2018). A common assessment to evaluate mentalising abilities is the Frith-Happe animation task which measures social cognition (Abel, Frith &amp; Happé, 2000). The current study utilised the virtual reality (VR) adapted Frith-Happe animations, which assesses animacy perception and its relation to ToM (White et al., 2011). This study combined a mixed methods design, obtaining both participant descriptions of the animations while in VR and their perception in an objective multiple-choice format. ToM capacity was also tested in relation to autistic traits, as measured by the Autism Quotient (Baron-Cohen et al., 2001), as well as empathetic responses, as measured by the Questionnaire of Cognitive and Affective Empathy (Reiners et al., 2011). Quantitative results will be analysed utilising multiple regression and spearman correlational analyses. Qualitative results will be analysed using thematic analyses. 

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language),  Other  

---




**Name:** Gregory Kokkinidis

**Supervisor:** Alessio Fracasso

**Title:** Myeloarchitectonics of the insula: cortical parcellation based on T1-weighted signal along cortical depth at 7 T MRI

**Abstract:** The identification of individual cortical areas and subcortical nuclei is considered a prerequisite for understanding how the brain works. Myeloarchitectonics refers to the study of brain architecture based on the observed differences of the myelination of neuronal axons. Myeloarhitectonic studies have identified up to 180 cortical areas in humans (e.g. Vogt &amp; Vogt, 1919), and more recently have successfully subdivided the insular cortex of macaques monkeys (Evrard, Logothetis, &amp; Craig, 2014). This study investigated the subdivision of the human insula using myeloarchitectonics. Secondary 7T MRI data from twelve participants underwent exploratory analysis that included image segmentation, coregistration and clustering analysis. Results are reported and limitations are discussed along with further research suggestions.

**Tags:** Other   

---




**Name:** Ania Kottermair

**Supervisor:** Margaret Martin

**Title:** How well does intelligence and grit predict skill in a video game?

**Abstract:** This study examines what aspects could impact how skilled one is in a video game. More specifically, it assesses the participants’ intelligence, as well as their level of grit and compares it to their gaming skill in the game “Portal 2”. The purpose of the study is to determine if intelligence and grit are predictors of how skilled one is in a video game that does not require a lot of mechanical skill. Each participant was asked to complete a short questionnaire on grit followed by a short intelligence test. Then, they were asked to complete a few levels from the game Portal 2, a puzzle-based game, with each level representing a unique challenge involving the placing of portals and blocks with the final goal of opening a door to be able to proceed to the next room. Past research in the field often only focused on games such as chess or video game genres such as MOBAs or First-Person Shooters. This study hopes to find similar results but for a video game genre that does not require mechanical gaming skill or prior knowledge of the game.

**Tags:** Individual Differences,  Other  

---




**Name:** Mhairi Kristoffersen

**Supervisor:** Chiara Horlin

**Title:** Harnessing Positive Stress: An Investigation into the Experience of Eustress and its Impact on Well-being and Self-efficacy through Recreational Circus

**Abstract:** This study investigates the experience of eustress during the recreational circus activity of flying trapeze and its effects on student well-being and self-efficacy. The aims of the study were to investigate the experience of eustress during flying trapeze, how individual differences may affect the experience of eustress and the impacts that eustress may have on student well-being and self-efficacy. 91 University of Glasgow students took part in a 2-hour flying trapeze workshop. The current study utilised questionnaires at different time points throughout the workshop to measure eustress-distress and individual differences.  Heart rate and blood pressure were measured throughout the study to indicate physiological stress. Follow-up questionnaires were administered to investigate change in well-being and self-efficacy. Data was analysed using descriptive statistics, Spearman correlations and simple linear regression in R. Results indicate that individuals experience eustress during the activity of flying trapeze. Spearman correlations indicated that there was a significant negative relationship between an individual's well-being and self-efficacy at the beginning of the workshop and the level of eustress experienced. A simple linear regression showed no significant effect of eustress on change in well-being and self-efficacy from before the workshop to 1-3 weeks’ post-workshop. 

**Tags:** Mental Health and Wellbeing   

---

