




## Surnames beginning with I {-}

**Name:** Maryam Ibrar

**Supervisor:** Heather Cleland Woods

**Title:** An exploration of parent’s motivations behind sharing photos on social media and considerations when sharing content of younger members of the family.

**Abstract:** The development of social media platforms and instant online connection, has allowed parents to exchange advice with peers. With the growth of social media apps like Facebook and Instagram, “Sharenting” has emerged. Parents are oversharing and constantly updating their followers of their child’s development as 81% of parents share photos of toddlers. With increasing dataveillance, it is important to consider child safety therefore, this study investigated the motivations and considerations behind sharing photos of young children online. Five telephone interviews with parents of children aged from birth to 5 years old were conducted and thematic analysis indicated that parents share to remain connected and to search for advice. A major finding was that parents did not consider the potential effects of sharenting on their child. This study highlights the need for accessible online safety information for parents. Subsequent study should explore the motivations and effects of prominent “mummy” blogging.

**Tags:** Social Psychology,  Mental Health and Wellbeing,  Other 

---



**Name:** Bairavi Iswaraan

**Supervisor:** Larry Barsalou

**Title:** Assessing Social Connectedness and Social Support using the Situated Assessment Method (SAM²)

**Abstract:** A vast body of research has found that different aspects of social relationships are fundamental towards individual psychological functioning. Hence, it is crucial to distinctly understand social connectedness and social support to better address its differential implications to social well-being. Additionally, most instruments that exist within the literature are unsituated, which result in individuals having to abstract their experiences over these items in providing judgements. With this, the current study aims to develop a situated, contextualised approach in measuring social connectedness and social support, and understand the comparability between these situated and unsituated measures, respectively. Furthermore, this study intends to establish vital individual difference measures within the literature related to social connectedness and social support. The sample consisted of native English participants recruited online (N=82). The on-going analyses uses correlations and linear mixed-effect regression models to predict as well as understand the effectiveness of these measures. 

**Tags:** Social Psychology   

---

