




## Surnames beginning with D {-}

**Name:** Morgan Daniel

**Supervisor:** Niamh Stack

**Title:** An exploration into the experiences of care home staff providing care to residents with dementia

**Abstract:** This research aims to gather the experiences of staff working in care homes, who provide care to residents with dementia. The study takes a qualitative approach in the form of two focus groups, each one hour in length. There will be 5-6 participants in each focus group, all of them from a care home outside of Glasgow in Helensburgh. The focus groups will be recorded and recordings will be used to transcribe the data in preparation for analysis. All data will be stored on a secure server and deleted upon submission of the project. A thematic analysis will be used to analyse the data following Braun and Clarke’s six step method, and any themes detected will be expanded upon using current literature. The implications of this research will be discussed and future recommendations suggested based on results.

**Tags:** Mental Health and Wellbeing   

---



**Name:** Georgia Maria Desmond

**Supervisor:** Linda Moxey

**Title:** Assessing differences in handover perceptions of PICU and Ward staff in order to create tailored recommendations for future implementations.

**Abstract:** The discharge of a patient from the Intensive Care Unit to the Cardiac Ward is reliant on efficient and effective communication in order to maintain a patient’s condition and level of care. This handover has been identified as a procedure in need of enhancement in the Queen Elizabeth Royal Hospital for Children. The present study utilises current literature on the topic, as well as questionnaires and focus groups, to assess the differences in perceptions of medical and nursing staff of the PICU and Ward. Gaining insight to the potential problematic areas of communication, quality of information and efficiency within the current procedure, and across staff teams, will hopefully allow for tailored recommendations to be produced to aid in future implementations.  

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language),  Applied Psychology  

---



**Name:** Millie Dias

**Supervisor:** Esther Papies

**Title:** How does plain packaging influence desire for sugary drinks? The role of social identity theory and conspicuous consumption

**Abstract:** This study aims to assess whether plain packaging can reduce likelihood to consume sugary drinks. Previous research examining plain packaging for tobacco use has found the intervention to be successful, but less research has been carried out looking at this intervention for sugary drinks and results are inconclusive. Therefore, this study aims to resolve findings and examine the role of social identity theory in the choice of branded versus plain packaged sugary drinks. Participants were allocated to one of three conditions- branded packaging, plain-transparent packaging or plain-opaque packaging. Likelihood to choose scores for each condition were calculated as an average over 6 statements (3 public and 3 private scenarios). Results were analysed using a mixed design ANOVA. It was concluded that participants were more likely to choose sugary drinks in public versus private settings, and packaging type and scenario did not interact to reduce participants likelihood to choose sugary drinks.

**Tags:** Other   

---



**Name:** Iona Rita Didier

**Supervisor:** Helena Paterson

**Title:** Exploring children’s occupational gender stereotypes of men and women working across STEM fields

**Abstract:** Background: Gender inequality in the STEM industry is apparent by the differences in gender representation in STEM careers and majors. Despite early gender stereotypes having been shown to impact children's future career decisions, there is little research exploring occupational gender stereotypes across STEM fields.  Aim: The purpose of this study is to explore children's occupational gender stereotypes across three STEM locations (Airplane, Hospital and Lab) to provide a better overview of the varying implicit attitudes among these.   Methods: 120 participants aged 5-12 were asked to draw on a provided template how they perceived a woman or man working in one of the above 3 STEM locations looked like. This was followed with several questions asking the child to choose their character’s occupation and other potential occupations they believed were available for someone with this gender working in that location. 

**Tags:** Social Psychology   

---



**Name:** Kieran Dowling

**Supervisor:** Niamh Stack

**Title:** Exploring the Experiences of the Benefits and Challenges of Sports Participation in Primary School Children with Low Socioeconomic Status: A Qualitative Study.

**Abstract:** The purpose of the current study was to gain a deeper understanding of the benefits and challenges of participating in a sports outreach program experienced by children with low socioeconomic status. Two focus groups were conducted in this study – one pupil focus group and one teacher focus group. Participants were 5 children aged 10-12 and 6 teachers from a primary school in the low SES area of Glasgow, Govan. Focus groups discussed the experiences of the benefits and challenges of participating in the sports program, the Govan School of Basketball (GSB), and participants responses will be analysed using thematic analysis. Themes identified will cover the benefits and challenges of the pupils' sports participation experience. Directions for future research and implications for intervention will be discussed. 

**Tags:** Developmental Psychology   

---
