




## Surnames beginning with C {-}

**Name:** Jinin Cheung

**Supervisor:** Kevin Wilson-Smith

**Title:** Exploring the cultural identity of Chinese people residing in the UK: An interpretative phenomenological analysis

**Abstract:** Like other ethnic groups in the UK, though relatively understudied, Chinese people who grew up and live in the UK face challenges in establishing and managing their identity. The present study aims to explore their lived experiences and how they understand their cultural identity, gaining an insight of what it is like to experience two contrasting cultures that is British and Chinese. A phenomenological qualitative approach was adopted in order to gain an in-depth insight into their experiences. Three participants were selected using purposive and opportunity sampling. Semi-structured interviews were conducted individually and in person. Interpretative Phenomenological Analysis (IPA) was applied to verbatim transcripts of audio-recording of the interview. This is the IPA study that investigates the cultural identity of Chinese people in the UK. The analysis is ongoing, hence results are not yet available. 

**Tags:** Social Psychology   

---



**Name:** Judy Chu

**Supervisor:** Martin Lages

**Title:** Curvature Illusion: The angle and length of arc on perceived curvature

**Abstract:** This study examines the properties which drive the curvature illusion. The curvature illusion is a visual illusion in which a short arc is often perceived as flatter/less curved than a longer arc if they are displayed next to each other. The illusion occurs when the arcs have the same radius but different arc lengths. The aim is to quantify this illusory effect in different conditions. Whether the length and the angle of the arc have an effect on how one perceives curvature. The adjustment of upper and lower arc would indicate how much each participant overestimate/underestimate the radius of a given arc when the illusion occurs. 

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language)   

---



**Name:** Siobhan Comrie

**Supervisor:** Emily Nordmann

**Title:** Are People More Likely to be Hateful Towards Disliked Celebrities than Liked Celebrities? A study on Twitter using Sentiment Analysis

**Abstract:** This dissertation will be conducted using data obtained from Twitter. It will look at 60 different celebrities, categorised by their gender and whether they are generally viewed favourably or unfavourably by the public. Tweets will also be categorised by the gender of the tweets, giving insight into how the different genders use hateful language online, and if this differs with their target.The results indicate that women are more likely to engage in sending hateful tweets than men, and male celebrities are generally more likely to receive hateful tweets than female celebrities. Furthermore, the interaction between celebrity gender and whether they are liked or not came out as significant, indicating that disliked female celebrities are significantly more likely to receive hateful tweets than liked female celebrities.An exploratory analysis was also performed to look at individual words.

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language),  Social Psychology  

---



**Name:** Sian Connelly

**Supervisor:** Phil McAleer

**Title:** Implicit perceptions of vocal attractiveness, dominance and trustworthiness.

**Abstract:** This study aims to examine the effect of voice perception on three traits: attractiveness, dominance and trustworthiness. Whilst associated with a variety of social attributes, dominance and trustworthiness are suggested to have the largest effect on perceived attractiveness, with gender differences also being present between the two. Research to date has focused largely on visual cues, with little known about the effects of auditory perception. Previous vocal studies that have been carried out have utilised a number-pointed scale to explicitly measure how {trait} a person is deemed to be. However, this study will utilise a forced choice reaction time paradigm – the purpose being to determine if that which has been found via explicit measures is replicated when measured implicitly. Through hearing only the word ‘hello’, participants will be asked to decide whether they find each voice to be an exemplar of each identified trait or not. The following hypotheses are expected to be observed:   1)    A faster reaction time for attraction will directly correlate with a faster reaction time for trustworthiness in females and males.  2)    A faster reaction time for attraction will directly correlate with a faster reaction time for dominance in females only.

**Tags:** Social Psychology   

---



**Name:** Naomi Isabella Conway

**Supervisor:** Helena Paterson

**Title:** Do children WANT gender stereotyped superheroes?

**Abstract:** Background: Previous research has proposed that children are exposed to an array of gender stereotypes through watching children’s TV - such as superhero programmes. Although there is vast research regarding children’s knowledge of these stereotypes, there is very little studies exploring if children would choose to use these stereotypes when creating their own character.   Aim: Therefore, this study seeks to explore the decisions young children make when creating their own imaginative character - specifically their own superhero – and whether they choose to design a character who conforms with gender stereotypes.  Methods: All children who participated in this study were asked to draw their own superhero on a template and then answer corresponding open-ended questions about their superhero. Children above the age of 7 were additionally asked to complete a questionnaire which gave a more restrictive choice on the characteristics they could give their superhero.

**Tags:** Social Psychology   

---



**Name:** Daniel Cringean

**Supervisor:** Phil McAleer

**Title:** The effect of interdental lisps on the perception of leadership effectiveness and intelligence.

**Abstract:** In some communities there still exists a perceived stigmatisation in adults who have a lisp. The current study aimed to examine whether this extended into positions of authority and altered individuals’ perception of leadership effectiveness. Participants were asked to listen to a student public address, being randomly assigned to one of four listening conditions: (1) Female with Lisp, (2) Female without Lisp, (3) Male with Lisp, (4) Male without Lisp. The voices were assessed based on the length of time participants attended to the speech. As lisping has been found to be associated with more negative evaluations of perceived intelligence, participants were also asked to assess the intelligence of the voice using a Likert Questionnaire to determine whether this influenced the result. Results will be analysed using a 2x2 factorial ANOVA and implications will be discussed with reference to contemporary literature.

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language)   

---
