




## Surnames beginning with H {-}

**Name:** Simon Hanzal

**Supervisor:** Gemma Learmonth

**Title:** Investigation of alpha rhythms during phasic alerting in young and older adults

**Abstract:** Phasic alerting involves inducing changes in alertness through brief alerting tones with a knock-on effect of improving the detection of subsequent visual targets. These changes in attention and alertness are associated with changes in alpha power (8-14Hz) within the parieto-occipital cortex in young adults, but there are few studies investigating this in healthy older adults. 64-channel EEGs was recorded in 17 young (19-24) and 15 older (50-88) adults. Participants responded to a left/right visual target either preceded by an alerting tone or no tone. Alpha power was extracted before the tone and after the tone/silence. The impact of age, alpha power and lateralisation on reaction times was also examined. The results show reduced alpha after the alerting tone irrespective of age. Young people were faster to respond to the target, and both groups responded faster to targets on the left (pseudoneglect). There was no relationship between alpha power and RTs.

**Tags:** Cognitive Neuroscience   

---



**Name:** Liliane Harper

**Supervisor:** Margaret Martin

**Title:** The effect of sexual objectification on victim blame in stranger rape and date rape scenarios

**Abstract:** Sexual assault is still a major problem for women and victim blaming has been found to exacerbate the trauma of the event.This study explores the effect of sexual objectification on victim blaming, and whether the effect of this relationship differs in a date rape scenario compared to a stranger rape scenario. University students over 18 years of age were recruited to participate online in the between-subjects design involving completing the Other Objectification Questionnaire (Strelan &amp; Hargreaves, 2005), reading either a date rape vignette or stranger rape vignette, and filling out a victim blame questionnaire (Grubb &amp; Harrower, 2009). Simple linear regressions will be conducted in order to test the hypotheses. Expected outcomes involve increased objectification leading to increased victim blame, and this positive relationship being stronger for the date rape scenario than the stranger rape scenario, consistent with previous research.

**Tags:** Social Psychology   

---



**Name:** Becca Harper

**Supervisor:** Monika Harvey

**Title:** Differential Decay Rates Between Access and Phenomenal Consciousness

**Abstract:** The current research concerns access (AC) and phenomenal consciousness (PC). Colour-diversity (CD) judgement is suggested to be a measure of PC as is it assumed to be based on a gist of an entire scene. This is disputed, however, and the current experiment tests theory that CD can be judged based on 2/3 letters. If so, then CD judgement may be a measure of AC, casting doubt on research that relies on it as evidence for PC. The study aims to expand previous work by adding the variable decay time. The study used a two-condition, within-subjects design in which participants completed letter recall and CD judgement tasks. We predict that the decay rate of CD judgement and maximum letter will be correlated, suggesting that CD judgement is based on the 2/3 letters in the working memory that can be recalled in the maximum letter task.

**Tags:** Cognitive Neuroscience   

---



**Name:** Katerina Hartmanova

**Supervisor:** Rachael Jack

**Title:** Transferring Conversational Facial Expressions onto a Social Robot Head

**Abstract:** As social robots become increasingly popular in today’s society, there is a need for them to be equipped with tools to effectively communicate with humans– such as appropriate facial expressions. While in the past most research focused on the facial expressions of emotions, conversational facial expressions communicating messages such as “confused”, “bored”, “thinking” or “interested” are arguably more frequently used in daily interactions and play a crucial role in them, so much that their absence can impair comprehension and conversation flow. This study aimed to transfer a set of these 4 common conversational facial expressions, reverse-engineered through novel data-driven methods, to a popular social robot head. To achieve this, we recruited a set of participants to judge models of these expressions displayed on the robot in a signal detection verification task. We used d-prime to assess the discriminability of each of the models and found the vast majority of them were discriminated well, especially the expressions showing boredom and interest. The possible implications of our results are discussed, alongside with the limitations of our study, its relations to research in this area and suggestions for its future directions.

**Tags:** Social Psychology,  Applied Psychology,  Other 

---



**Name:** Isabelle Hartung

**Supervisor:** Larry Barsalou

**Title:** Investigating the Role of Incidental Anxiety on Message Acceptance of a Political Narrative

**Abstract:** The study of emotions in politics has only been a recent development; yet has led to a surge of research in this field, particularly on anxiety. Previous research has also demonstrated the importance of how a political message is presented, whereby narrative formats demonstrated a stronger influence on attitudes. However, there is extremely limited research investigating the effect of discrete, incidental emotions on the acceptance of a political narrative. Thus, this study attempts to address this gap. Participants were divided into two groups. The first received an emotional elicitation task, intending to elicit incidental anxiety, whereas the second group received a neutral task. Both groups were then presented with a political narrative about nuclear weapons and message strength and acceptance were measured. It is hypothesized that experiencing anxiety will lead to higher message acceptance, due to existing theories on the role of anxiety, such as information-seeking models.

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language)   

---



**Name:** Anna Hawkes - Cumming

**Supervisor:** Dale Barr

**Title:** Quantifying Rhythm in Speech

**Abstract:** This study aimed to examine the nature of the rhythmicity in natural speech, in a sample of students from the University of Glasgow. It considered whether the rhythmic structure occurs globally over time, with one master frequency, or if there are multiple rhythmic centres, with rhythmicity occurring on a local level. The experiment employed quantitative measures exclusively and involved the use of a sensorimotor task through a ‘tapping’ device while a series of speech excerpts were played auditorily. Exploratory analysis of the tapping signal will be carried out and the variance in tempo between participants will be measured for the sensorimotor data. This measure will then be correlated with tempo estimates from the corresponding speech excerpts. These results will be analysed using R-studio software and the implications of this research discussed.

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language)   

---



**Name:** Heather Hooper

**Supervisor:** Stephany Biello

**Title:** The Age-related Differences in the Rate of Re-entrainment in the Presence of Serotonin Agonists and an 8-Hour Phase Advance to the Light: Dark Cycle.

**Abstract:** Age-related changes to circadian timing include a decrease in amplitude of the rhythm and a slower rate of re-entrainment following a phase advance. The present study extends previous research by investigating the age-related differences in disrupted circadian rhythms and the rate of re-entrainment in mice when an 8-hour phase advance to the light: dark cycle is present. Consistent with previous research, which looked at a 6-hour phase advance, aged mice took longer to re-entrain to the new light: dark cycle. The rate of re-entrainment was measured by the number of wheel counts as this determined the sleep: wake cycle from the two cohorts which consisted of young mice (n=16) and aged mice (n=16). Both cohorts were involved in three different conditions; an intraperitoneal injection of serotonin agonists: (1) 5HT7, (2) 8-OH-DAPT and (3) a control (no intraperitoneal injection). Following the 8-hour phase advance, old mice displayed slower rates of re-entrainment compared to the young mice whilst both age groups presented quicker rates of re-entrainment in the two serotonin conditions compared to the control condition. Thus, suggesting that age and serotonin agonists have the influence to quicken the rate of re-entrainment and highlight the pharmaceutical potential of serotonin agonists in cases of disrupted circadian rhythms.

**Tags:** Other   

---



**Name:** Liam Hopkins

**Supervisor:** Larry Barsalou

**Title:** Mindfulness, Emotion Regulation & Psychological Wellbeing: Applying the Situated Assessment Method (SAM²)

**Abstract:** Accumulative evidence suggests that dispositional mindfulness is associated with increased levels of psychological wellbeing. Emotion regulation has emerged as a potential mechanism that helps explain this relationship. The current study assessed this proposed relationship using situated and unsituated measurement instruments. Specifically, the study compared how the relationship between dispositional mindfulness, emotion regulation and psychological wellbeing varied using the Situated Assessment Method (SAM2) compared to standard, self-report instruments. Eighty students completed three situated instruments (SAM2 Mindfulness, SAM2 Emotion Regulation and SAM2 Psychological Wellbeing) and three unsituated instruments (Five Facet Mindfulness Questionnaire [FFMQ], the Difficulties in Emotion Regulation Scale [DERS], and the Scales of Psychological Wellbeing [SPWB]). The initial results found moderate, positive correlations between each paired situated and unsituated instrument (e.g. SAM2 Mindfulness and FFMQ), indicating they were capturing similar, but not identical information. The main analyses found that emotion regulation was a more important predictor of psychological wellbeing than dispositional mindfulness for both situated and unsituated instruments. Further analyses found that the unsituated instruments explained more variance in this relationship than the situated instruments. Implications and future research directions will be discussed.

**Tags:** Individual Differences,  Mental Health and Wellbeing  

---



**Name:** Kirstin Hunter

**Supervisor:** Helena Paterson

**Title:** Occupational Gender Stereotypes in Children: The Impact of Job Familiarity

**Abstract:** This study explores the impact of job familiarity on occupational gender stereotypes in children. The aim is to uncover whether the implicit gender stereotypes, which already exist in children for common jobs like police officer or nurse, are present in less familiar jobs, such as video game designer or fashion designer. A drawing task was presented to each child where they had to choose between two gender stereotyped jobs and draw whatever they thought someone in that job would look like. They were either given a choice between familiar jobs – police officer and nurse – or unfamiliar jobs – video game designer and fashion designer. They were then asked what the name and gender of their character and why they picked that job. The results were analysed using a logistic regression.

**Tags:** Social Psychology   

---



**Name:** Sarah Grace Hutchinson

**Supervisor:** Helena Paterson

**Title:** Children’s racial preference for a skin tone similar to their own

**Abstract:** This study examines if children have an in-group preference for a skin tone that is similar to their own. This was examined because if children were found to have a preference for a skin tone similar to their own, then this would highlight that children naturally associate more with others that are racially alike to themselves. This was studied through drawings, where the children were given an option of two human outlines of a darker or lighter skin tone and asked to draw a superhero. The children were then asked additional questions, including who their favourite superhero was, to identify if children also have a racial preference with existing characters. If racial preference is found to be significant, then the conclusions of this study will be able to encourage even more representation within media platforms such as television and movies, so that all children can find characters that they can racially associate with. 

**Tags:** Social Psychology   

---



**Name:** Casper Hyllested Pedersen

**Supervisor:** Christoph Scheepers

**Title:** Generalizability Theory; reviewing the Stait-Trait Anxiety Inventory through a new lens

**Abstract:** Several fields in social sciences are facing a replication crisis. This can be partially attributed to sub-optimal experimental designs, yet it is in large part also due to the inherent differences between people and populations. When an experiment is done, and disproportionate consideration is given to how well results can translate between different occasions, raters, tests or any number of potential facets, the likelihood that the findings are reliable decreases greatly. The current default measures of reliability, such as classical test theory, are generally considered inadequate, yet they are still heavily used in the literature despite preferable alternatives being available. One such alternative is Generalizability Theory, which analyzes how much variance in results can be attributed to any chosen facets of generalization. Compared to current dominant methods it allows for more precise measurement due to its consideration of interaction effects. Furthermore, in repeated measures experiments, person and occasion variance calculations can be used to determine whether tests, subscales or even individual items measure states or traits in individuals. The current study is a meta-analysis of studies using the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory in a repeated measures design. The primary goal is to evaluate the psychometric properties and generalizability of the entire measure, as well as whether the subscales and individual items measure states and traits appropriately. This will be demonstrated through a variety of examples and through an open science framework to better allow for any researcher to improve methodological standards in their field.

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language)   

---



**Name:** Georgina Patricia Hynes

**Supervisor:** Gregor Thut

**Title:** Effects of alpha oscillaitons on visual perception: evidence from audio-visual entrainment

**Abstract:** Distinct human brain oscillations recorded over posterior sites have been linked to specific aspects of perception and attention. One particular oscillation, the occipito-parietal alpha rhythm (~8-14 Hz), has been associated with changes in cortical excitability and its power and phase found to predict whether upcoming stimuli will be detected or not. However, more recent studies have provided converging evidence that pre-stimulus alpha power might influence the decision confidence, rather than perceptual sensitivity, by showing that alpha activity correlates with subjective perceptual experience but not with discrimination accuracy. Whether the relationship between pre-stimulus alpha power and subjective measures of performance is causal is still unclear. With the present project, we aim to investigate the nature of this relationship by transiently manipulating alpha power and phase. We plan to interact with brain activity by trains of audio-visual stimuli to entrain, i.e. progressively enhance, alpha oscillations using paired audio-visual stimulus of 10Hz. The effects on visual perception will be measured by objective accuracy, and subjective confidence ratings. We expect to see a visual disruption measured by accuracy and confidence ratings in the rhythmic (10H) audio-visual stimuli condition compared to arrhythmic and control conditions. 

**Tags:** Cognitive Neuroscience   

---

