




## Surnames beginning with N {-}

**Name:** Vilte Noreikaite

**Supervisor:** Gregor Thut

**Title:** Alpha-band entrainment effects on visual discrimination and subjective perceptual experience: Evidence from short-train transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS)

**Abstract:** Background:Different aspects of human perception and attention have been linked to posterior brain oscillations. The occipito-parietal alpha rhythm (~8-14 Hz) is modulated by visual spatial attention. Its phase and power have been found to be predictive of the detection of upcoming visual stimulus. In previous studies, non-invasive short TMS pulse trains were used to effectively entrain alpha oscillations in the parietal region. Specifically, pre-stimulus alpha oscillation entrainment in posterior regions has been shown to selectively impair target detection contralaterally to the stimulated hemisphere but enhance it ipsilaterally. However, recent studies claim that pre-stimulus alpha power correlates with decision confidence rating rather than visual discrimination accuracy. The main aim of this study is to directly manipulate alpha power and phase using TMS pulse trains to learn about the relationship between pre-stimulus alpha and both objective and subjective visual perceptual experiences. Methods:20 healthy volunteers came into the TMS laboratory for two sessions of the experiment. All participants had undergone the same conditions and completed 300 visual perception task trials. The task involved discriminating whether a near-threshold (50% individual detection rate) visual stimulus appeared as a lighter or a darker patch on a grey computer screen background. After selecting their answer, participants were asked to rate their confidence of a perceived stimulus on the Perceptual Awareness Scale. EEG recordings from 3 scalp electrodes (O1, Oz, O2) were obtained during the whole experiment and TMS pulse trains were applied over the right parietal cortex based on individual MRI scans. This study employed a within-subjects design with 3 randomised TMS conditions (rhythmic at 10 Hz frequency = experimental; arrhythmic and sham = control) each consisting of 5 pulse trains. The visual stimulus appeared immediately after the cessation of TMS pulses. To analyse the results 3´2 ANOVA will be performed on the objective and subjective performance in the TMS manipulation task. A post-hoc EEG regression analysis will explore the difference between participant’s individual alpha frequency and the 10 Hz main stimulation frequency, and its effect on task performance. Results:It is expected that the experimental TMS condition will bias target perception so that participants will report being less confident about their discrimination choice in the visual field, opposite to the stimulated hemisphere, and more confident in the ipsilateral visual field. This subjective experience will be compared to the actual visual discrimination accuracy.  

**Tags:** Cognitive Neuroscience   

---



**Name:** Mandy Norrbo

**Supervisor:** Lisa DeBruine

**Title:** Characterising the use of internal meta-analyses in psychology and assessing their impact

**Abstract:** An  internal meta-analysis is a statistical method used to calculate an  aggregated effect size for 2 or more studies within a single paper.  Although this has been portrayed as a good way to reduce the file-drawer  problem and increase power, a simulation study by Vosgerau et al.  (2019) indicated that internal meta-analyses can have a detrimental  effect on false positive rates if the studies were subject to  questionable research practices or were selectively included. However,  these simulations may not reflect actual researcher behaviour and  relevant parameters, as they were not based on published internal meta-analyses. Thus,  this study aims to first characterise the current use of internal meta-analyses  by systematically coding recently published psychological research. These results will  then be used to inform the parameters in simulations to estimate true and false positive rates of internal  meta-analyses. The results will then be synthesised to  more rigorously assess the current impact of internal meta-analyses. 

**Tags:** Other   

---

