



## Surnames beginning with F {-}

**Name:** Julie Farish

**Supervisor:** Margaret Martin

**Title:** Investigating Empathy and Social Views Towards Male-to-Female Sexual Violence

**Abstract:** Sexual violence is a prevalent issue, with male-to-female sexual violence considered the most pervasive. Rape myth acceptance (RMA) continues to impact considerations of what makes sexual violence acts ‘legitimate’ and not the fault of the victim. However, crime statistics have found that most cases do not have many RMA components. Data was collected via the online platform, Experimentum. Vignettes depicting rape in varied alignment with RMA components were administered to participants (n=165*). Participants were asked to identify whether they consider the scenario to be a rape in order to ascertain the effects of RMA.The Liberal Feminist Attitude and Ideology Scale (LFAIS) and the Rape Victim Empathy Scale (REMV) were completed to assess attitudes towards women and towards rape victims, respectively. It is hypothesised that those who scored higher on the LFAIS and the REMV measures will be more likely to definitively assess the vignette scenarios as depicting rape.

**Tags:** Social Psychology   

---



**Name:** Bradley Farrant

**Supervisor:** Rachael Jack

**Title:** Identifying further textural components of facial stimuli

**Abstract:** People analyse facial features (e.g., face shape, skin colour, and skin texture) both alone and in combination to classify others as members of social groups and form trait judgments (Rule &amp; Sutherland, 2017). Currently, more research has been carried out into facial colouration and face shape than the textural components of faces (Costa, Lio, Gomez &amp; Sirigu, 2017).Because of this, the current study aims to further identify variations in textural facial cues, specifically wrinkles, smoothness, and blemishes in stimuli in order that future research may use this data to analyse these textural cues in relation to social judgments.

**Tags:** Social Psychology,  Other  

---



**Name:** Marine Fleury

**Supervisor:** Gregor Thut

**Title:** Effects of alpha-band entrainment on perception: Evidence from short-train transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS)

**Abstract:** Subjective visual perception is shaped by awareness levels and decision-making processes, which are associated with parietal cortex’s oscillators at frequency alpha (i.e., 8-14Hz). Nevertheless, it seems that evidence is lacking to infer a causal relationship between cortical excitability patterns and subjective visual functions. As such, the present study investigated TMS-related changes of a-neurons parietal activity of 20 healthy volunteers under three conditions (i.e., sham, arrhythmic and rhythmic TMS). EEG recordings and a detection task, involving near-threshold Gaussian patches, assessed neuronal entrainment, performance accuracy and perceptual awareness. In rhythmic-TMS condition only, successful entrainment of  æ-oscillators is expected to decrease subjective awareness when stimuli were presented on the contralateral side to the stimulation. Moreover, the closer the individual alpha frequency (IAF) was to the stimulation’s frequency (i.e., 10Hz), the greater the behavioural effects of entrainment are predicted. To verify such hypotheses, an ANOVA will compare behavioural measures across conditions of stimulus and stimulation, and post-hoc regression analysis will evaluate the relationship between IAF and behavioural effect-size.

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language),  Cognitive Neuroscience  

---



**Name:** Emma Fowler

**Supervisor:** Niamh Stack

**Title:** An exploration of young peoples lived experiences arising from engagement with the G20 Youth Project: a video diary study.

**Abstract:** This study explores the lived experiences of young people engaging with the G20 youth project. This project has been established to provide a safe space and diversionary activities to be available in the Maryhill and Ruchill areas for vulnerable, disadvantaged young people. Using a video diary this study aims evaluate the impact of the youth group from the young people’s perspective. Investigating the experiences that arise as a result of engagement with the G20 youth project and the practical implications of this on the young people's lives. 

**Tags:** Mental Health and Wellbeing,  Developmental Psychology,  Applied Psychology 

---




**Name:** Claire Frodsham

**Supervisor:** Benedict Jones

**Title:** The effect of hormonal contraceptives on female psychosexuality

**Abstract:** The effect of hormonal contraceptives on female psychosexuality is becoming of increasing interest in literature. However, there is a distinct lack of research into how the contraceptive pill influences sociosexual orientation, or one’s interest in uncommitted sexual relationships. Here, we report findings from a large sample size (n = 782) on the differences in sociosexuality between naturally cycling women and women taking oral contraceptives. Our findings show no significant difference in overall sociosexual orientation and in two of three subcomponents of sociosexuality: attitude and behaviour. However, we found significantly lower sociosexual desire in oral contracepting women compared to naturally cycling women. These results highlight the importance of continued research into the effects of oral contraceptives on female psychosexuality.

**Tags:** Other   

---




**Name:** Grace Mary Furnell

**Supervisor:** Guillaume Rousselet

**Title:** Taking a step back to move the field forward: Culture and the Criminal Justice System

**Abstract:** A look at where we find our field in terms of replication, open science, exploratory and multiverse analysis using crime research as the domain of interest. Relative to its importance and implications for policy and practice, as well as potential for harm, criminal justice system research has lacked attempts at replication. As cultural diversity becomes an increasing inevitability within our world it is crucial to understand the impact of culture on crime. This project seeks to reproduce findings, about the interaction between culture and crime, using papers with open access to raw data, and then conduct an exploratory model multiverse to determine how robust the findings are. Full access to code, analysis notes and commentary regarding the challenges and joys of the process will be provided. Followed by a discussion about the implications of the findings in terms of what the future holds for both replication and crime research.

**Tags:** Other   

---

