



## Surnames beginning with V {-}

**Name:** Lasse Benedikt Vaagt

**Supervisor:** Kevin Wilson-Smith

**Title:** Uniforms at University: An Exploration into Enclothed Cognition

**Abstract:** This study is an exploration into the effects of enclothed cognition at the University of Glasgow. The aim was to see what effect wearing a university sport club uniform has on the cognition and behaviour of the wearer. A number of in-depth interviews were conducted and an interpretative phenomenological analysis was carried out following transcription, with the aim of discovering insights into how the participants make sense of the given phenomenon. The study at hand is the first to explore said phenomenon in the student body at the University of Glasgow.

**Tags:** Social Psychology   

---



**Name:** Rhoda von Below

**Supervisor:** Chiara Horlin

**Title:** Awareness and willingness to accommodate autistic students in higher education

**Abstract:** The aim of this mixed-methods study was to examine the current autism knowledge and awareness in higher education teachers, as well as their attitudes towards accommodating autistic students. Educators from UK universities filled out online knowledge and awareness questionnaires. Furthermore, semi-structured interviews were conducted to explore their attitudes towards autistic students. The researchers are expecting to find medium to high ratings for both awareness and knowledge, and hypothesise that gender, knowing someone autistic, years spend teaching and autistic traits influence these scores. The qualitative analysis suggests cognitive dissonance between the often-positive attitudes towards accommodating autistic students, and the teacher’s actions in the classroom. On the basis of these results, it will be discussed how autism knowledge and awareness are high in teaching staff, which then however does not necessarily translate to inclusive teaching. The implications of this for higher education institutions and further research opportunities will be explored. 

**Tags:** Educational Psychology   

---
