




## Surnames beginning with W {-}

**Name:** Jamie Wagstaffe

**Supervisor:** Ian Bushnell

**Title:** Investigating Deception in a game of "Werewolf"

**Abstract:** This study investigates whether vocal pitch changes during deception, observed by previous literature, applies to the social deduction game “Werewolf” and how these certain acoustical qualities of voices may impact deception detection in the novel deception environment of a group setting. Using voice clips as stimuli extracted from the WOLF CORPUS (Chittaranjan &amp; Hung, 2010), a vocal pitch analysis was performed using PRAAT software (Version 6.1.06) and found pitch to increase during deception, consistent with previous literature. These voice clips were then presented to participants via Experimentum whom were tasked with rating each voice on a 1-7 scale based on how deceptive they perceived each voice. The results of this were analysed using a linear regression. The implications of this study are discussed, along with possible limitations and opportunities for future research highlighted.

**Tags:** Social Psychology   

---



**Name:** Mhairi Corinne Walls

**Supervisor:** Dale Barr

**Title:** Does Lexical Competition Arise in Face-Name Associations?

**Abstract:** This study investigates whether lexical competition occurs for face-name pairs. It adopts a similar methodology to previous literature for word-object pairs: on Day I, participants are trained and tested on face-name pairs. During testing, in order to identify lexical competition, target face-name pairs are presented with competing novel names (e.g. Jamie and Jamou). The eye gaze is tracked using eyetracking equipment within the Visual World Task. To allow for consolidation, the testing condition will be repeated on Day II with previously trained, untested face-name pairs. Similar research has been conducted on words without referents, but this is the first study to apply this methodology to face-name associations. The aim of this study is to identify whether lexical competition occurs for face-name pairs and if it does, whether it is similar in nature to word-object pairs.

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language)   

---




**Name:** Rebekah Jane Weir

**Supervisor:** Kevin Wilson-Smith

**Title:** A qualitative insight into the identities of UK army reservists

**Abstract:** The present study explores whether the findings of Griffiths (2011) in relation to the identities of US army reservists can be observed within a UK population of the same nature. Griffiths’ research uncovered 5 identities specific to US reservists including that of the ‘Weekend Warrior’ and ‘Instrumental Volunteer’. Prior to this study, there had been no attempt to assess these findings using an alternative population. Therefore, the purpose of the present study is to determine if similar identities may be found within a UK sample or, if entirely new identities may emerge. 26 current members of the UK army reserve were interviewed using a semi-structured approach, with questions focusing on motivations, reasons for joining and values or beliefs. The analysis has yet to be completed, however a thematic analysis will be conducted with the aim of identifying common themes which may or may not correspond with the proposed identities of US reservists.

**Tags:** Social Psychology,  Other  

---




**Name:** Chiara Wilke

**Supervisor:** Eugene Dawydiak

**Title:** Parents’ perceptions of their children’s trichotillomania, self-blame, and expressed emotion.

**Abstract:** This study investigated the relationship between parents’ self-blame for their children’s trichotillomania (TTM) and expressed emotion towards the child. The aim was to see whether parental self-blame for their children’s TTM could predict their expressed emotion towards the child. Subjective perceptions of TTM severity and knowledge were also analysed with respect to self-blame and expressed emotion. This is the first study to investigate these relationships in parents with hair-pulling children. Participants were recruited online and completed a series of short questionnaires. Data was analysed using linear regression models and correlational analyses in R. Results indicate that there is a fairly strong, significant predictive relationship between self-blame and expressed emotion. Moderate correlations were also found for subjective TTM severity and self-blame and EE. However, TTM knowledge showed no significant effect on the outcome variables. Post-hoc power analyses further showed that most findings were powerful at the .8 level.

**Tags:** Individual Differences,  Mental Health and Wellbeing  

---




**Name:** Mary Wilson

**Supervisor:** Niamh Stack

**Title:** “I can’t shut down feelings, there’s no time scale for them”: How ChildLine counsellors make sense of and cope with high-risk contacts

**Abstract:** This is a phenomenological investigation of ChildLine counsellors' experiences when working with high-risk contacts. Working with high-risk children and young people has potentially negative psychological impacts for counsellors. Effective coping mechanisms have been identified as necessary in mitigating against these impacts. Coping mechanisms used by counsellors have mostly been quantitatively analysed. Hence, there is empirical opportunity to understand the underlying mechanisms of these coping processes as this may inform support structures for counsellors. Therefore, the aim of this study is to qualitatively analyse the mechanisms that counsellors use to cognitively appraise and cope with high-risk contacts. An audio diary methodology was adopted to access counsellors’ sense-making processes and capture the phenomena of coping as it developed. It was expected that this would expose the connection between how counsellors evaluate the success of a contact and the subsequent coping necessary to move forward from it.                       

**Tags:** Mental Health and Wellbeing,  Applied Psychology  

---

