




## Surnames beginning with S {-}

**Name:** Timo Schnabl

**Supervisor:** Dale Barr

**Title:** The Processing of Scottish Names by Scottish Folk

**Abstract:** In psycholinguistics, it is a well-known fact that people are faster to process common words. Indeed, the cortical processing immediately triggered after hearing a stimulus, such as a name, is influenced by the listener’s personal history. A name’s commonality relies on the subject’s proximity and frequency of exposure to said word. The present study investigated whether an individual’s personal experience with names, shapes their corresponding processing speed. Data will be collected from a Scottish sample whose reaction time and eye-movements will be assessed, by an eye-tracking device and a mouse recorder. The set of names presented to participants will vary according to the individuals’ year of birth to represent potential differences in commonality across years. Names having been more frequently present during the participants’ childhood are expected to be more quickly processed than uncommon ones. The relative distinctiveness of common names and uncommon names is discussed, and further investigation is proposed.  

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language)   

---



**Name:** Gintare Semyte

**Supervisor:** Esther Papies

**Title:** Investigating the effects of plain packaging on the consumption of sugary drinks

**Abstract:** While there are many health risks associated with the consumption of sugary drinks, including type 2 diabetes and coronary disease, they remain a popular drink of choice in the UK. This study was designed to test the effects of a potential intervention: plain packaging of sugary drinks. According to the grounded cognition theory of desire, packaging creates simulations of consuming the product previously, which increases people’s desire to consume it. Plain packaging attempts to reduce those simulations and in turn, decrease the desire to purchase the drink. To test this intervention, 562 participants were assigned to one of the three groups: standard brand packaging, transparent bland packaging (bottles with plain white labels) and opaque bland packaging (brown-green cans with brand names), and were asked to answer questions about consuming sugary drinks in different scenarios. Results showed that packaging type did not affect participants’ likelihood to consume the drinks.

**Tags:** Social Psychology,  Other  

---




**Name:** Ricarda Senger

**Supervisor:** Christoph Scheepers

**Title:** “The cross-word effect”: A retrieval advantage for words encoded in line with their spatial association

**Abstract:** Challenging traditional models of semantic memory, embodied cognition theory (ECT) claims that semantic knowledge is grounded in sensorimotor experiences. A substantial body of research drawing upon various methodological approaches has provided evidence for ECT. However previous studies have only explored embodied semantics regarding memory retrieval.  The present study therefore fills the gap by exploring the influence of sensorimotor experiences during encoding on later word recall performance. We designed 160 unique, counterbalanced word arrays featuring 20 words which were taken from our pool of pre-tested and normed word stimuli. To test the role of ECT on semantic encoding, we manipulated spatial association of words (horizontal vs vertical) and presentation of words (horizontal vs vertical). Using Generalised Linear Mixed Effect Models, we found a significant interaction effect on the likelihood of word recall as predicted by ECT.

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language)   

---




**Name:** Maša Senožetnik

**Supervisor:** Phil McAleer

**Title:** Influence of culture on vocal attractiveness: A study of English-Finnish bilinguals

**Abstract:** This study focuses on the effect of culture on vocal attractiveness, and whether a ‘universally’ attractive voice exists. This is the first study in this field to empirically compare the differences in vocal attractiveness ratings based both on the language of the speaker and the listener, and the first to utilise the voices of bilinguals. British and Finnish nationals listened to 32 Finnish-English bilinguals’ voices and rated, using a Likert scale, the attractiveness of these voices. The results were analysed using linear mixed-effects models separated by voice sex, and stepwise regression models were used to determine which acoustic information drives vocal attractiveness ratings separated by sex and the language of the speaker and listener. The implications of the results will be discussed in light of previous research.

**Tags:** Other   

---




**Name:** Elisa Serra

**Supervisor:** Guillaume Rousselet

**Title:** Bridging the gap between experimental and theoretical approaches in environmental psychology: An intervention on household food-waste-related behaviours in university students.

**Abstract:** Increasing global environmental concerns call for radical changes in detrimental human behaviours. Environmental psychology has shown promise in mitigating such behaviours; however, findings from experimental and theoretical research approaches seldom intersect within this field. That is, interventions are rarely grounded in theoretical knowledge. The current study devised a psychologically informed intervention based on the integrative influence model of pro-environmental behaviour. In accordance to the model’s predictions of behaviour, the intervention aimed to modify Scottish university students’ perceptions of domains surrounding household food waste, namely perceived environmental consequences; ascription of responsibility; ability to prevent and social norms. Measurements of perceptions and food waste-related behaviours were collected through baseline and follow-up questionnaires online. The intervention was presented as a flyer within the baseline questionnaire. ANCOVAs compared the result of the intervention flyer group to a group presented with a basic informational flyer lacking social norm manipulations, and another presented with no flyer.  

**Tags:** Social Psychology   

---




**Name:** Alejandro Serrano Saunders

**Supervisor:** Maria Gardani

**Title:** Evaluating The Effectiveness of CBTi & Sleep Education on Improving Sleep & Well-Being On A Student Population <U+200B>

**Abstract:** This study aims to evaluate the effects of provision of digitized Cognitive Behavioural Therapy for Insomnia (CBTi) and Sleep Education (SE) resources on an undergraduate sample. So far, no studies have investigated the efficacy of individual CBTi modules on improvement of student sleep and well-being. As such this study investigates the effects of cognitive behavioural (CB) and SE components of CBTi. 19 university students were randomly assigned to CB or SE conditions, and were emailed CB or SE material over 10 weeks. Participants additionally wore actigraphy watches and completed sleep diaries, assessing sleep efficiency, sleep onset latency and wake after sleep onset. Participants completed questionnaires assessing measures for depression, suicidal ideation and loneliness at a baseline, midpoint and at completion. Results are expected to demonstrate improvements in sleep and well-being measures for all students across the 10 weeks, with greater improvements for those receiving CB modules as compared to SE.

**Tags:** Mental Health and Wellbeing   

---




**Name:** Ana Skolaris

**Supervisor:** Marios Philiastides

**Title:** The Role of Facial Social Categorisation Properties on Implicit Judgments of Trust and Decision Making

**Abstract:** Facial cues play a key role in signalling social intentions, enabling us to make rapid social judgments about others. An important attribute we try to infer from people’s faces is trustworthiness. The current study aims to investigate the link between facial social categorisation properties, specifically sex and race on trustworthiness. In the experiment, participants viewed faces of people who have previously engaged in an economic decision making game. Their task was to guess how likely these people were to reciprocate half of the money invested in them. The results were analysed using a generalized linear mixed model.  As hypothesised,  Female faces were perceived as more trustworthy, compared to Male faces. Moreover, Asian faces were perceived as more trustworthy, with Caucasian participants exhibiting a larger trustworthiness difference between race stimuli. Additionally, trustworthiness reaction times were analysed, revealing no difference between sexes, but a significantly faster reaction time exhibited by Asian participants

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language),  Social Psychology,  Individual Differences 

---




**Name:** Tristan Joseph Smith

**Supervisor:** Marios Philiastides

**Title:** Subjective Decision Confidence Within a Perceptual Decision-Making Task: The Influence of the Speed-Accuracy Tradeoff

**Abstract:** Decision making within everyday life involves the judgement of when to stop deliberating and come to a decision, which is known as the speed-accuracy tradeoff (SAT). Subjective decision confidence is an endogenous evaluation of how accurate a decision was, which is used to inform future decision processes. This study examines, for the first time, how the SAT influences decision confidence within a perceptual decision-making task. The SAT was implemented by restricting the amount of time participants could view a random dot motion task before having to submit an answer as to which direction the dots were moving in. Within each condition, three levels of task difficulty were implemented by manipulating the percentage of dot coherence within the random dot-motion task. Once a decision was made, participants would rate their subjective confidence in their decision using a 9-point Likert scale. The results were analysed using ANOVA to confirm the implementation of the SAT, whilst a kolmogorov-smirnov test was used to compare the confidence distributions between the two conditions.

**Tags:** Other   

---




**Name:** Emily Smith

**Supervisor:** David Simmons

**Title:** The validation of the Frith-Happé animations utilising the virtual reality animacy perception task

**Abstract:** Frith Happé animations have been extensively utilised to assess one’s ability to attribute and understand the mental states of oneself and others, often referred to as Theory of Mind (ToM). Recent advancements regarding this task’s design have aimed to improve detection of mentalising deficits. This study aims to validate the Frith Happé animations in a virtual reality environment using a mixed methods design with a total of 68 participants. Geometric shapes were presented in a series of 12 animations depicting one of three interactions (no interaction, physical interaction and mental interaction) which participants were tasked to correctly categorise and describe. Verbal descriptions were provided for further thematic analysis, whilst a series of tests will be analysed to determine if there is an association between autistic traits, empathy and ToM. Findings and implications will be discussed considering recent literature. 

**Tags:** Other   

---




**Name:** Iza Soklic Poljak

**Supervisor:** Stacy Marsella

**Title:** Gestural Misinformation: The Effect of Iconic and Metaphoric Gestures on Eyewitness Testimony

**Abstract:** Until recently, research has mainly focused on how misleading verbal information affects eyewitness testimony. Only some have shown that misinformation from iconic gestures affects the eyewitness’ crime recollection accuracy. This study is the first one investigating iconic as well as metaphoric gestures’ influence in questioning. Its aim was to determine whether at recall, eyewitness’ crime interpretation was susceptible to interrogator’s gestured misinformation rather than remained congruous with the witnessed event. Participants watched footage of a wallet theft and were among several distractor questions about the crime asked two critical ones, corresponding to the two gesture types – iconic and metaphoric. Each critical question was presented with either no gesture, gesture conveying an accurate or a misleading crime interpretation. It is expected to evidence that both types of gestural misinformation cause participants to adopt the inaccurate crime interpretation. The implications of this research for eyewitness’ questioning in legal proceedings will be discussed.

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language)   

---




**Name:** Julia Jacobsen Someya

**Supervisor:** Frank Pollick

**Title:** The effect of mediated social warmth and coldness on the experience of cyberostracism in a sample of undergraduate university students

**Abstract:** The current study examined whether mediated social warmth can lessen the negative experience of cyberostracism and if mediated social coldness can intensify it, in a sample of undergraduate students from the University of Glasgow. Participants engaged in the Cyberball paradigm (Williams, Cheung, &amp; Choi, 2000) while experiencing warmth, coldness, and no temperature from a Peltier (a heat pump) across three separate trials. Each game lasted approximately 10 minutes. Ostracism was measured using a standard post-experimental cyberostracism questionnaire after each trial and through electromyography (EMG) activity of the corrugator supercilii, as higher activity has been found to be associated with being ostracized (Kawamoto, Nittono, &amp; Ura, 2013). A number of qualitative questions were also answered by participants to examine their experiences with mediated social warmth and coldness in more depth. It is hypothesized that experiencing mediated social warmth through an interface will minimize social rejection felt by participants. Furthermore, the second hypothesis theorizes that experiencing mediated social coldness will intensify the feeling of social rejection in participants. A one-way repeated measures ANOVA will be conducted to examine the results of the questionnaire data, and the EMG data will be pre-processed and analyzed separately also with ANOVA. The qualitative responses will be analyzed using a Thematic Analysis.  ReferencesKawamoto, T., Nittono, H., &amp; Ura, M. (2013). Cognitive, Affective, and Motivational Changes during Ostracism: An ERP, EMG, and EEG Study Using a Computerized Cyberball Task. Neuroscience Journal, 2013.  Williams, K. D., Cheung, C. K. T., &amp; Choi, W. (2000). Cyberostracism: Effects of being ignored over the Internet. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 79(5), 748-762.

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language),  Social Psychology,  Applied Psychology,  Other

---




**Name:** Kroot Soomets

**Supervisor:** Edwin Robertson

**Title:** Investigating the effects of sport typology on working memory and response inhibition in university students

**Abstract:** Exercise is considered a protective factor against physical and mental problems. The study aimed to investigate exercise’s relationship with a less known aspect of health – cognition. This was achieved by measuring working memory and response inhibition skills in university students using a 2-back Task and a Go/No-Go Task. Participants were divided into three groups based on their athletic background: non-athletes, open-skill athletes and closed-skill athletes. This division allowed to investigate the general effects of exercise as well as any differences due to sport typology. It is hypothesised that athletes will demonstrate superior skills compared to non-athletes, with open-skill athletes scoring the highest in both tests. Data will be analysed using one-way ANOVA. If a significant difference is found between non-athletes and athletes in terms of their cognitive tests scores, an exploratory regression will be run to examine whether the athletes’ expertise (years of training) is associated with their cognitive skills. 

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language)   

---




**Name:** Leah Statham

**Supervisor:** Eugene Dawydiak

**Title:** An investigation of the relationship between the stigmatisation of individuals with mental health conditions and overgeneralised disease avoidance.

**Abstract:** Both the avoidance of individuals with cues of infection and the stigmatisation of individuals who are deemed to appear ‘atypical’ are hypothesised to reflect a common underlying process of infectious disease avoidance. The current study aims to investigate the relationship between the stigmatisation of individuals with mental health conditions and overgeneralised disease avoidance, as measured by disgust sensitivity. The relationships between sub-scales of the Three Domain Disgust Scale (TDDS; Tyber, 2009) and the stigmatisation of individuals with one of four mental health conditions (schizophrenia, depression, trichotillomania and anorexia nervosa) as measured through the AQ-27 (Corrigan, 2012), was investigated in a sample of 292 participants. It is hypothesised that scores on the pathogen disgust sub-scale of the Three Domain Disgust Scale will positively correlate with the stigmatisation of all four mental health conditions. Further, it is hypothesised that there will be a significant relationship between pathogen disgust and trichotillomania and anorexia nervosa in particular. 

**Tags:** Individual Differences,  Mental Health and Wellbeing  

---




**Name:** Kalina Stefanova

**Supervisor:** Christoph Scheepers

**Title:** Effects of emotion and concreteness on visual word processing in L1 and L2 speakers

**Abstract:** This study examines the effects and interaction of emotional valence and concreteness on word recognition and compares those between native English speakers and second-language speakers. It is a replication of Yao et al. (2018) who used a large sample of words matched for word length and frequency and controlled for arousal, familiarity, and age of acquisition. The words were presented in a lexical decision task and response times were recorded. Participants also completed an English proficiency test and a language history questionnaire. The results are analysed using linear mixed models. We hypothesise that emotional and concrete words will be recognised faster than neutral and abstract words respectively, and there will be a significant interaction such that the valence effect will be stronger for concrete words. Similar effects are expected to be observed in highly proficient English speakers, regardless of first language.

**Tags:** Cognitive Psychology (including language)   

---




**Name:** Rebecca Jane Stewart

**Supervisor:** Margaret Martin

**Title:** The Effect of Tattoo Narrative on Tattoo Stigma in the Workplace

**Abstract:** Though there is much research indicating that visible tattoos lower an individual’s professional desirability, there is as yet no research measuring which genres of tattoo elicit the most stigma in the workplace. This study compares professional desirability of tattooed surgeons across six tattoo narrative genres: Group-Association; Aesthetic; Message-to-oneself; Self-Empowerment; Loss and Trauma. Participants (N = 217) read a vignette describing a hospital visit for a routine outpatient surgery, followed by 20 descriptions of doctors with upper-arm tattoos. Participants indicated on a Likert scale how likely they would be to want each doctor as their surgeon. Data was firstly analysed using Friedman’s Test, where professional desirability was found to differ significantly amongst tattoo narratives. Post Hoc analysis revealed that Group-Association tattoos were significantly less-desirable than all others, and Trauma was significantly more desirable than most. Effect-size was, however, small. A Wilcoxon Rank-Sum showed no significant difference due to participant age.

**Tags:** Social Psychology   

---

